SOURCE: documents/generalregulations.pdf
============================================================

Academic Regulations undergraduate taking graduate-level credit must receive approval and
agree to the specific terms selected.
- Students requesting the credits as undergraduate credits or those
Graduate School Catalog
who do not qualify to have the credits listed on the graduate transcript
must register for the course as UG (undergraduate credit). The credits
It is the responsibility of the graduate student to become informed and
will be listed on the undergraduate transcript and the credits will impact
to observe all regulations and procedures required by the program
the undergraduate GPA.
the student is pursuing. Ignorance of a rule does not constitute a
basis for waiving that rule. The current Graduate Catalog gives the
- Students who request the credits as graduate-level credits and meet
academic requirements the student must meet to graduate. However,
the qualifications to have the credits listed on the graduate transcript
with department or program consent, a student can change to the
must register for the course as GR (graduate credit). The credits will be
requirements in a later catalog published while the student is enrolled
listed on the graduate transcript and the credits will impact the graduate
in graduate school. Changes to administrative policies and procedures
level GPA.
become effective for all students as soon as the campus community is
notified of the changes. - Once registered as UG or GR, the level cannot be changed after the
add/drop date of the semester in which the course is taken.
The Graduate Catalog is available to students in both print and electronic
forms. Print catalogs are updated annually. Electronic versions of the - Students may apply up to 12 credits of unused graduate-level
Graduate Catalog may be updated more frequently to reflect changes coursework, registered as GR, while enrolled as a full-time undergraduate
approved by the campus community. As such, students are encouraged student, toward a Mines graduate degree. For students in a combined
to refer to the most recently available electronic version of the Graduate program, these credits are in addition to the 6 credits being counted
Catalog. This version is available at the Mines website. The electronic toward both the undergraduate and graduate degrees as double counted
version of the Graduate Catalog is considered the official version of this courses.
document. In case of disagreement between the electronic and print
versions, the electronic version takes precedence. - Financial aid may be impacted. Email finaid@mines.edu for more
information on financial aid impacts.
Curriculum Changes
Cross-Listed Courses
The Mines Board of Trustees reserves the right to change any course
of study or any part of the curriculum to respond to educational and Only the graduate section of a 4xx/5xx cross-listed course can count
scientific developments. No statement in this catalog or in the registration toward a graduate degree or graduate certificate. Students may only
of any student shall be considered as a contract between Colorado receive credit for one section of a 4xx/5xx cross-listed course. For
School of Mines and the student. example, if a student received credit for the undergraduate section (4xx),
the graduate section (5xx) cannot be taken for graduate credit. No more
Making up Undergraduate Deficiencies than 50% of the credits used to award a graduate degree can come from
graduate sections of 4xx/5xx cross-listed courses.
If the department or program decides that new students do not have
the necessary background to complete an advanced degree, they will Absenteeism
be required to enroll in courses for which they will receive no credit
toward their graduate degree, or complete supervised readings, or Introduction
both. Students are notified of their apparent deficiency areas in their
Mines students are expected to fulfill their academic requirements
acceptance letter from the Graduate School or in their first interview with
through attendance and/or participation. Class attendance is required of
their department advisor. Departments will provide the list of deficiencies
all students unless the student has an excused absence granted by the
to the students no later than one week after the start of classes of their
school or the student’s professor. Excused absences may be granted for
first semester in order to allow them to add/drop courses, as necessary.
five general reasons:
Grades for these deficiency courses are recorded on the student’s
undergraduate transcript and could impact a student's academic standing 1. Student is unable to attend class due to unexpected and immediate
in their graduate program. physical or mental wellbeing concerns (illness, surgery, injury, mental
health, or hospitalization). In this regard, the student is reasonably
Graduate Students in Undergraduate
unable to attend class, or it is in the best interest of the student’s
Courses health and/or the health of the Mines community for the student to be
excused.
Students may take undergraduate courses of interest or deemed
2. Student has a documented personal reason for the absence
necessary to fully carry out thesis research. These courses cannot be
(e.g., jury duty, death in the immediate family, religious holiday or
used to fulfill the requirements for the degree, which must be 500-level
observance, etc.) or unforeseen, unavoidable, and anomalous conflict
and above.
subject to review and approval.
Undergraduate Students in Graduate 3. Student is a sanctioned athlete and representing Mines in a
sanctioned athletics activity per the Athletics Department.
Courses
4. Student is representing Mines in an authorized activity related to
With the consent of the student’s department and the Dean of Graduate a club or academic endeavor such as: academic competitions,
Studies, a qualified senior may enroll in 500-level courses without being student professional society conferences, department-sponsored trip,
a registered graduate student. At least a 2.5 GPA is required. Any authorized research opportunity or request, club sport competition,

2 Academic Regulations
program-sponsored competitions, etc. Regularly scheduled and/or Further, a student can jeopardize their academic status with an
recurring commitments may not qualify. unreasonable number of removed graded activities. If the number
5. Student is granted an excused absence through a sanctioned office of removed graded activities (defined as #3 from “Once an Excused
because of protected, unexpected, sensitive, or time-sensitive Absence is Granted”) surpasses a reasonable threshold set by the faculty
circumstance(s). Sanctioned offices are Office for Institutional Equity in the course Syllabus, then additional missed graded activities may not
(i.e., Title IX), SOS, DSS, Dean of Students Office/VPSA. be removed, and the student may be advised to withdraw from the course
or receive the subsequent and appropriate grade, which may include
It is recognized that excused absences will occasionally occur, and failure of the course.
faculty are expected to establish and clearly communicate the Excused
Absence Policy and course-specific guidance or expectations in their Students should review the Incomplete and Complete Hardship or
course Syllabus. Medical Withdrawal Policies if they believe that these procedures may
apply in their situation given excessive absences. Additional information
Faculty may grant an excused absence for their own course upon request on Withdrawals can be found here and information on incompletes can
by a student. be found here.
Student requests for an excused absence does not guarantee approval. Any student with chronic absences may be required to meet with Student
Students may be asked to provide documentation and the excused Life to discuss resources available to them to reduce future absences.
absence request is subject to approval by Student Life. Approval may
consider all aspects of the request, including the duration of the request Unexcused Absences
and nature of the request.
All absences that are not documented as excused absences are
Opportunistic or habitual abuse of the excused absence policy violates considered unexcused absences. Faculty members may deny a student
the Mines Code of Conduct. Any patterns of absences that specifically the opportunity to make up some or all work missed due to an unexcused
result in missing exams/tests/quizzes may be investigated. absence(s). However, faculty members have discretion to grant a
student permission to make up any missed academic work for an
Once an Excused Absence is Granted: unexcused absence. The faculty member may consider the student’s
class performance and attendance in the decision.
The University expects each student to be responsible for learning
material missed because of an excused absence. Important Note: Faculty will seek to honor all documented excused
absences according to this policy and the course Syllabus. However,
If the student missed an in-class graded activity because of their excused
class attendance is essential to understand the material and for learning
absence, the faculty have the following options:
to take place. Excessive or opportunistic absences regardless of the
reason may result in a reduced or failing grade in the course based on
1. Require that the activity be made up within a reasonable time frame
course content and delivery. As content and delivery differ among faculty
based on the situation as determined by the faculty member.
and classes, it is important for a student missing class to discuss the
2. Require that an alternative activity be completed within a reasonable
absences, excused or unexcused, with his/her/their faculty member(s) to
time frame based on the situation as determined by the faculty
determine what will be considered excessive.
member.
a. If it is deemed necessary by the faculty to use an alternative Withdrawing from School
activity, it should be comparable in terms of rigor and time of
completion to the original activity in such a way that having To officially withdraw from Mines, a graduate student must submit a
missed the original activity will not penalize the student. Withdrawal from Graduate School form to the Office of Graduate Studies.
b. The alternative activity should also align with the same learning If the form is submitted by the add/drop date, the student will be dropped
objectives as the original graded activity. from all credits and receive a full refund. If the form is submitted after the
add/drop date, the student will receive grades of W in courses in progress
3. Remove the graded activity from the student’s overall grade
and will be charged the full tuition and fees (see the Payment and Refund
calculation: If the faculty determines certain graded activities have
section). If the student does not officially withdraw, the course grades
pedagogical value which cannot be reasonably replicated, they will
are recorded as F’s and the student will be responsible for the tuition
instead remove those graded activities from the student’s overall
and fees due. Federal aid recipients should check with the Financial
grade calculation.
Aid office to determine what impact a withdrawal may have on current or
a. This will be separate from any grading adjustment(s) - including
future aid.
but not limited to dropping the lowest grade(s) - available to the
rest of the class.
Students who leave school without submitting a Withdrawal from
Graduate School form, but decide to return at a later date, will need to
Any out-of-class graded activities that are due on the day of an excused
apply for admission and be readmitted.
absence may be accommodated. The details can be established by
faculty based on the student situation or more generally in their course
PhD students planning to voluntarily withdraw from their doctoral program
syllabus.
may potentially depart Mines with an earned master’s degree. Approval
is subject to review of student academic performance, including earned
Excessive Absences
credit for coursework and/or research. For more information on this
A student can jeopardize their opportunity to gain and demonstrate potential pathway, students should speak with their faculty advisor or the
course mastery with excessive absences. Office of Graduate Studies. The Office of Graduate Studies is responsible
for oversight and administration of this pathway. While the graduate dean
ultimately approves the student request, all relevant parties including the

faculty advisor and departmental or program leadership will be included.
This option is not applicable to those seeking temporary leave from
Mines.