SOURCE: documents/catalog.pdf
============================================================

Colorado School of world. Our educational mission is built on a foundation of commitment
and partnership between students and faculty.
Mines Catalog
Here, learning is a collaborative process. Faculty serve not only as
instructors and mentors in the classroom, but also as research partners
and co-creators of knowledge beyond it. We value your curiosity and
The role and mission of Mines is defined by the State legislature and as initiative as much as your preparation and performance.
such is codified in Colorado State Statute to be:
A Mines education sits at the intersection of strong technical training,
The Colorado School of Mines shall be a specialized baccalaureate intentional professional development, and real-world application. Our
and graduate research institution with high admission standards. The degree programs prepare you with the knowledge, skills, and mindset to
Colorado School of Mines shall have a unique mission in energy, mineral, lead in industry, research, and society.
and materials science and engineering and associated engineering
and science fields. The school shall be the primary institution of higher This catalog is your guide to the academic programs and opportunities
education offering energy, mineral and materials science and mineral that define the Mines experience. We invite you to explore it and to
engineering degrees at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. imagine the impact you’ll make.
(Colorado revised Statutes: Section 23-41-105).
An institutional goal for all of these programs is articulated in theProfile of
In addition to the formal statement on the role and mission of Mines, the the Colorado School of Mines Graduate:
Board of Trustees elaborated upon Mines' statutory role:
- All Mines graduates must have depth in an area of specialization,
Mines Mission enhanced by hands-on experiential learning and breadth in allied
fields. They must have the knowledge and skills to be able to
Our#STEM-focused education and research produce#the talent, recognize, define and solve problems by applying sound scientific
knowledge and solutions to serve industry and benefit#society – all and engineering principles. These attributes uniquely distinguish our
to#create a more prosperous futureI.t’s the mission Mines was founded graduates to better function in increasingly competitive and diverse
on 150+ years ago and where we continue to excel today.We’re a technical professional environments.
community of innovative leaders and resilient problem-solvers who revel
in challenges and work together in order to engineer solutions on Earth
- Graduates must have the skills to communicate information, concepts
and beyond.
and ideas effectively orally, in writing, and graphically. They must be
Vision skilled in the retrieval, interpretation and development of technical
information by various means, including the use of computer-aided
Mines will be the premier institution for engineering and science, techniques.
based on the impact of its students, graduates and research
programs.
- Graduates should have the flexibility to adjust to the ever-changing
Colorado School of Mines is a world-renowned institution that continually professional environment and appreciate diverse approaches to
enhances its leadership in education and research to serve and advance understanding and solving society’s problems. They should have
industry, government agencies and communities around the world. the creativity, resourcefulness, receptivity and breadth of interests to
By maximizing its top-ranked academic programs, close industry think critically about a wide range of cross-disciplinary issues. They
connections, cutting-edge research and a global alumni network, Mines should be prepared to assume leadership roles and possess the
is the go-to place for distinction and expertise in both established and skills and attitudes which promote teamwork and cooperation and to
emerging engineering and scientific fields. continue their own growth through lifelong learning.
catalog usage
- Graduates should be capable of working effectively in an
international environment and be able to succeed in an increasingly
The Undergraduate Catalog is the official resource for academic
interdependent world where borders between cultures and
programs, course offerings, and graduation requirements at Colorado
economies are becoming less distinct. They should appreciate the
School of Mines. While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of
traditions and languages of other cultures, and value diversity in their
the information, updates may occur between publications. Students are
own society.
expected to consult the most recent version of the catalog, available
on the Mines website, as it reflects the most current and authoritative
information. Ultimately, it is the student’s responsibility to be aware of - Graduates should exhibit ethical behavior and integrity. They should
applicable policies, procedures, and academic requirements. Lack of also demonstrate perseverance and have pride in accomplishment.
knowledge of a regulation does not exempt a student from compliance. They should assume a responsibility to enhance their professions
For addendums to the current catalog that were not available at the time through service and leadership and should be responsible
of production, go to the Catalog Addendum section. citizens who serve society, particularly through stewardship of the
environment.
colorado school of mines - the education
At Colorado School of Mines, we believe science, technology, Graduate Student Profile
engineering, and mathematics are powerful tools for shaping a better
Mines graduate students identify and address grand challenges of the
twenty-first century using innovative applications of sound scientific

2 Colorado School of Mines Catalog
and engineering principles. They act as contributors and leaders of and a nonvoting faculty member is elected to serve a two-year term by
multidisciplinary teams to deliver impactful results for the betterment of the academic faculty. Financial support comes from student tuition and
society. fees and from the state through annual appropriations. These funds are
augmented by government and privately sponsored research, private gift
Mines graduate students are skilled in the acquisition, interpretation, support from alumni, corporations, foundations and other friends. Please
and analysis of data as well as communication of information to diverse visit https://www.mines.edu/trustees/ for more information.
audiences. They exemplify ethical behavior including academic and
professional integrity, respect for diversity of all types, and recognition of colorado school of mines non-
the value of living and working in an interdependent world.
discrimination statement
history of colorado school of mines
In compliance with federal law, including the provisions of Titles VI and
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendment
In 1865, only six years after gold and silver were discovered in the
of 1972, Sections 503 and 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the
Colorado Territory, the fledgling mining industry was in trouble. The
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, the ADA Amendments Act
nuggets had been picked out of streams and the rich veins had been
of 2008, Executive Order 11246, the Uniformed Services Employment
worked, and new methods of exploration, mining, and recovery were
and Reemployment Rights Act, as amended, the Genetic Information
needed.
Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, and Board of Trustees Policy 10.6, the
Early pioneers like W.A.H. Loveland, E.L. Berthoud, Arthur Lakes, Colorado School of Mines does not discriminate against individuals
George West and Episcopal Bishop George M. Randall proposed a on the basis of age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender
school of mines. In 1874, the Territorial Legislature appropriated $5,000 expression, race, religion, ethnicity, national origin, disability, military
and commissioned Loveland and a Board of Trustees to found the service, or genetic information in its administration of educational
Territorial School of Mines in or near Golden. Governor Routt signed the policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and
bill on February 9, 1874, and when Colorado became a state in 1876, loan programs; athletic or other school-administered programs; or
the Colorado School of Mines was constitutionally established. The first employment.
diploma was awarded in 1883.
Inquiries, concerns, or complaints should be directed by subject content
location as follows:
1500 Illinois St., Golden CO 80401 The EO, ADA Coordinator, and Section 504 Coordinator for employment:
accreditation Craig Hess, Director of Employee Relations
Human Resources Office
Mines is accredited through the doctoral degree by the Higher Learning 1500 Illinois Street
Commission (HLC) of the North Central Association, 230 South LaSalle Golden, Colorado 80401
Street, suite 7-500, Chicago, Illinois 60604-1413 - telephone (312) 303-273-3390
263-0456. The Engineering Accreditation Commissions of ABET, 111
Market Place, Suite 1050, Baltimore, MD 21202-4012 - telephone (410) The ADA Coordinator and the Section 504 Coordinator for students and
347-7700, accredits the following undergraduate engineering degree academic educational programs:
programs at Mines: Marla Draper, Director of Disability Support Services
1225 17th Street
- Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering Golden, Colorado 80401
- Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering 303-273-3297
- Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering disabilitysupport@mines.edu
- Bachelor of Science in Design Engineering
Title IX Complaints and Student Discrimination Complaints:
- Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering Carole Goddard, Title IX Coordinator
- Bachelor of Science in Geological Engineering Golden, Colorado 80401
- Bachelor of Science in Geophysical Engineering 303-273-3206
titleix@mines.edu
- Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
- Bachelor of Science in Metallurgical and Materials Engineering The ADA Facilities Access Coordinator is:
- Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering Jason Slowinski, Director of Facilities Management
- Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering 1318 Maple Street
Golden, Colorado 80401
- Bachelor of Science in Engineering Physics
303.273.3330
The American Chemical Society accredits the following degrees:
Complaints of Alleged Violations related to student privacy (FERPA):
- Bachelor of Science in Chemistry.
https://studentprivacy.ed.gov/file-a-complaint
board of trustees
Student Privacy Policy Office
General management of the school is vested by State statute in a Board U.S. Department of Education
of Trustees, consisting of seven members appointed by the governor. 400 Maryland Avenue, SW
A nonvoting student member is elected annually by the student body

Washington, DC 20202-8520