SOURCE: documents/cs.pdf
============================================================

Computer Science GRADUATE CERTIFICATE IN
CYBERSECURITY
The minimum requirements for admission to the Graduate Certificate in
Degrees Offered
CyberSecurity are:
- Master of Science (Computer Science)
- Undergraduate-level knowledge on data structures, computer
- Doctor of Philosophy (Computer Science)
organization, algorithms, and operating systems.
- Professional Master's Degree - Online
- Undergraduate-level knowledge on statistics and discrete
- Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
mathematics.
- Undergraduate-level skills on the Linux operating system and shell
Program Overview scripts.
- Undergraduate-level programming skills in languages such as C, C+
The Computer Science Department offers the Master of Science and
+, Python, Java, JavaScript, and HTML/CSS.
Doctor of Philosophy in Computer Science. These degree programs
demand academic rigor and depth yet also address real-world problems. MASTER'S AND PHD
The department’s research falls into six areas: algorithms, human- The minimum requirements for admission to the MS and Ph.D degrees in
centered computing, machine learning and data science, robotics, Computer Science are:
security and privacy. The Department of Computer Science has a strong
- Applicants must have a bachelor's degree, or equivalent, from an
emphasis on research, both within the department and collaboratively
accredited institution with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better on a
with other departments, universities, government organizations and
4.0 scale.
industry partners. See the CS@Mines Research webpage for updated
details and current projects: https://cs.mines.edu/research/. - Students are expected to have completed the following coursework
at Mines or equivalent at another institution: 1) CSCI200
PROGRAM DETAILS FOUNDATIONAL PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS & DESIGN:
Foundational Programming Concepts and Design, 2) CSCI220:
The Computer Science Department offers a variety of programs:
Data Structures and Algorithms, 3) CSCI306: Software Engineering,
4) CSCI341: Computer Organization, 5) CSCI358: Discrete
We offer the degrees Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy
Mathematics. It is strongly suggested applicants also have completed
in Computer Science. The master's program is designed to prepare
a course in Algorithms and Operating Systems. The CS graduate
candidates for careers in industry or government or for further study at
admissions committee will require that students who do not meet this
the PhD level; both thesis and non-thesis options are available. The PhD
expectation demonstrate competency or take remedial coursework.
degree program is sufficiently flexible to prepare candidates for careers in
Such coursework will not count toward the graduate degree. The
industry, government, or academia.
committee will decide whether to recommend regular or provisional
Combined Program: The CS Department also offers combined BS/MS admission.
degree programs. These programs offer an expedited graduate school - TOEFL score of 79 or higher (or 550 for the paper-based test or 213
application process and allow students to begin graduate coursework for the computer-based test) for applicants whose native language
while still finishing their undergraduate degree requirements. is not English. In lieu of a TOEFL score, and IELTS score of 6.5 or
higher will be accepted.
Admission PREREQUISITES
- For the PhD program, prior research experience is desired but not
BS+MS Combined required.
Current Mines undergraduate students are encouraged to apply for the Admitted Students: The CS Department Graduate Committee may
combined program once they have taken five or more Computer Science require that an admitted student take undergraduate remedial coursework
classes at Mines (classes transferred from other universities will not be to overcome technical deficiencies. The committee will decide whether to
considered). This requirement may be met by any 200-level or above recommend regular or provisional admission.
course with a CSCI prefix (e.g., CSCI200, CSCI306, CSCI406 CSCI442,
Transfer Courses: Graduate-level courses taken at other universities for
etc.), excluding CSCI274, CSCI370, CSCI499.
which a grade equivalent to a B or better was received will be considered
Students should have an overall GPA of at least 3.0 and a GPA of 3.2 for transfer credit with approval of the advisor and/or thesis committee,
for courses in the major. The calculation of GPA in the major will be and CS department head, as appropriate. Transfer credits must not
based on all 200-level or above CSCI courses except those excluded have been used as credit toward a Bachelor degree. For the MS degree,
above (i.e., CSCI274, CSCI370 and CSCI499). If a course is taken no more than nine credits may transfer. For the PhD degree, up to 24
multiple times, all of the grades will be included into the GPA calculation. credits may be transferred. In lieu of transfer credit for individual courses,
Interested students with a lower GPA must include in their statement students who enter the PhD program with a thesis-based master's degree
of goals/personal statement a section explaining why they should be from another institution may transfer up to 36 credits in recognition of the
admitted to the program. coursework and research completed for that degree.
Advisor and Thesis Committee: Students must have an advisor from
the CS faculty to direct and monitor their academic plan, research, and
independent studies. Advisors must be full-time permanent members of
the faculty. In this context, full-time permanent members of the faculty

2 Computer Science
are those that hold the rank of professor, associate professor, assistant coursework plus 9 hours of thesis credit leading to an acceptable
professor, research professor, associate research professor or assistant master's thesis; thesis students are encouraged to find a thesis advisor
research professor. Upon approval by the graduate dean, adjunct faculty, and form a thesis committee by the end of the first year. The non-thesis
teaching faculty, visiting professors, emeritus professors, and off-campus option consists of two tracks: a Project Track and a Coursework Track.
representatives may be designated additional co-advisors. A list of CS Requirements for the Project Track are 24 hours of coursework plus
faculty by rank is available in the faculty tab of the catalog. 6 hours of project credit; requirements for the Coursework Track are
30 hours of coursework. The following two core courses are required
Master of Science (thesis option) students in CS must have at least of all students. Students may choose elective courses from any CSCI
three members on their thesis committee; the advisor and one other graduate course offered by the department. In addition, up to 6 credits
member must be permanent faculty in the CS Department. CS PhD of elective courses may be taken outside of CSCI. Lastly, a maximum
thesis committees must have at least four members; the advisor/co- of six independent study course units can be used to fulfill degree
advisor and two additional members must be permanent faculty in the CS
requirements. Core courses for the program are below. CSCI 561 and
Department, and one member must be outside the departmental faculty CSCI 564 (or an alternative course, subject to approval by the committee
and serving as chair of the committee. Students who choose to have a based on the provided justification). Examples of potential alternative
minor program must select a representative from the minor area of study courses include CSCI 582 (Computing Beyond CPUs), CSCI 565
to serve on the thesis committee. (Distributed Computing), and CSCI 563 (Parallel Computing for Scientists
and Engineers)..
Degree Audit and Admission to Candidacy: Master's students must
complete the Degree Audit form by the posted deadline. PhD students
CSCI561 THEORY OF COMPUTATION (offered every fall) 3.0
need to submit the Degree Audit form by the posted deadline and need
CSCI564 ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE 3.0
to submit the Admission to Candidacy form by the posted deadline of
(offered every spring)
the semester in which they want to be considered eligible for reduced
registration.
MS Project Track
Time Limit: As stipulated by the Mines Graduate School, a candidate for Students are required to take 6 credits of CSCI700 to fulfill the MS
a master's degree must complete all requirements for the degree within project requirement. (It is recommended that the 6 credits consist
five years of the date of admission into the degree program. A candidate of two consecutive semesters of 3 credits each.) At most, 6 credits
for a doctoral degree must complete all requirements for the degree of CSCI700 will be counted toward the masters non-thesis degree.
within nine years of the date of admission into the degree program. Deliverables include a report and a presentation to a committee of two
CS faculty including the advisor. Deliverables must be successfully
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
completed in the last semester in which the student registers for
Mines' Combined Undergraduate/Graduate CSCI700. A student must receive two pass votes (i.e., a unanimous vote)
to satisfy the project option.
Degree Program
MS Thesis Defense
Students enrolled in Mines’ combined undergraduate/graduate program
may double count up to 6 credits of graduate coursework (500-level or At the conclusion of the MS thesis, the student will be required to make
above) to fulfill requirements of both their undergraduate and graduate a formal presentation and defense of her/his thesis research. A student
degree programs. These courses must have been passed with B- or must pass this defense to earn an MS degree.
better, not be substitutes for required coursework, and meet all other
university, department, and program requirements for graduate credit. CS Minor
Students are advised to consult with their undergraduate and graduate A CS Minor at the master's level requires a minimum of 9 credits of CSCI
advisors for appropriate courses to double count upon admission to the coursework, of which at least 6 credits of coursework must be at the 500-
combined program. level or above excluding independent studies and graduate seminars.
Pursuant to Graduate School rules, all minors must be approved by the
Current Mines undergraduate students are encouraged to apply for the student's advisor, home department head, and a faculty representative of
combined program once they have taken five or more Computer Science the minor area of study. A minor may not be taken in the student's major
classes at Mines (classes transferred from other universities will not be area of study.
considered). This requirement may be met by any 200-level or above
course with a CSCI prefix (e.g., CSCI200, CSCI306, CSCI406, CSCI442, CS@Mines Bridge Program
etc.), excluding CSCI274, CSCI370, and CSCI499. Students should
The Bridge Program is designed for those without a background in
have an overall GPA of at least 3.0 and a GPA of 3.2 for courses in the
CS to have a direct pathway to a Computer Science (CS) master’s
major. The calculation of GPA in the major will be based on all 200-level
(MS) degree. Students in the CS@Mines Bridge program will complete
or above CSCI courses except those excluded above (i.e., CSCI274,
foundational undergraduate courses which will prepare them for master’s
CSCI370 and CSCI499). If a course is taken multiple times, all of the
level coursework. Students will then continue to the MS non-thesis (NT)
grades will be included into the GPA calculation. Interested students with
program as a full-time or part-time student.
a lower GPA must include in their statement of goals/personal statement
a section explaining why they should be admitted to the program. All incoming Bridge students are required to have earned a bachelor’s
degree from an accredited with a grade-point average of at least 3.0 on a
Master of Science - Computer Science
4.0 scale.
The MS degree in Computer Science (thesis or non-thesis option)
Bridge students are required to take a set of pre-requisite Bridge courses
requires 30 credits. Requirements for the thesis MS are 21 hours of
to prepare for the MS degree. Required courses are CSCI195, CSCI200,

CSCI210, CSCI220, CSCI306, CSCI341, and CSCI358. Incoming - The second test area should be from another research area of
students with no completed coursework in calculus or programming from interest to the student that is 1) supported by faculty within the CS
an accredited institution may need to take Calculus 1-3 and CSCI128 in department and 2) different from the student's primary advisor's
addition to the Bridge courses stated above. Students must earn a B or research area. It is highly recommended that the student choose
higher in their Bridge coursework for it to count toward their progress in their secondary test area with an instructor the student has had
the program. in one or more courses. This exam will likely be less substantial
than the primary exam, i.e., instructions will be more concrete. The
For more information regarding the program and application process, purpose of having a second test area is to ensure students can
please contact our Graduate Program Manager, Kelsie Diaz, at demonstrate both the breadth of knowledge and the capability in
kdiaz@mines.edu. doing independent research. Thus, no faculty member is allowed
to assist the student in this second exam except for answering
Doctor of Philosophy - Computer Science
clarification questions.
The PhD degree in Computer Science requires 72 credits of coursework
Students must inform the CS Qualifying Committee Chair of their
and research credits. Required coursework provides a strong background
intention to take the exam by a specific date provided by the Chair in the
in computer science. A course of study leading to the PhD degree can
prior semester.
be designed either for the student who has completed the master's
degree or for the student who has completed the bachelor's degree. Step 2. The qualifying exam committee chair creates an exam committee
The following three courses are required of all students. Students who of (at least) four appropriate faculty. The exam committee assigns the
have taken equivalent courses at another institution may satisfy these student specific tasks with corresponding deliverables for both research
requirements by transfer. Core courses for the program are below. CSCI areas chosen. The tasks will be some combination from the following list:
561 and CSCI 564 (or an alternative course, subject to approval by the
committee based on the provided justification). Examples of potential - design and evaluate new algorithms or systems for an important
alternative courses include CSCI 582 (Computing Beyond CPUs), CSCI research problem, and write a report that summarizes the design and
565 (Distributed Computing), and CSCI 563 (Parallel Computing for the evaluation results.
Scientists and Engineers). - read a set of technical papers, write a summary of the papers read,
make a presentation, and answer questions (presentations will be
CSCI561 THEORY OF COMPUTATION (offered every fall) 3.0 limited to 30-minutes with a hard stop not including Q&A).
CSCI564 ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE 3.0 - complete a hands-on activity (e.g., develop research software) and
(offered every spring) write a report that explains the difficulties with the activity and what
SYGN502 INTRODUCTION TO RESEARCH ETHICS 1.0 was learned.
- complete a set of take-home problems.
PhD Qualifying Examination
- write a literature survey (i.e., track down references, separate
Students desiring to take the PhD qualifying exam must have: relevant from irrelevant papers).
- If required by your advisor, taken SYGN501: The Art of Science
Step 3. The student must complete all deliverables no later than the
(previously or concurrently).
Monday of review week (11:59 p.m.). Failure to meet the deadline is
- Completed (previously or concurrently) all core courses.
considered a failed attempt. The submitted report on the deadline is
- Complete (previously or concurrently) at least four CSCI 500-level considered to be final, i.e., no update is allowed after the due date/time.
courses at Mines (only one CSCI599 is allowed). The oral presentation will be scheduled during Finals Week. Before
- Maintained a GPA of 3.5 or higher in all CSCI 500-level courses the oral presentation, the student is not allowed to practice the exam
taken. presentation with his/her advisor or research group to get feedback. The
student will access exam problems, and submit deliverables through
The PhD qualifying exam must be passed no later than the fourth a specified system such as Canvas course/module. Additionally, the
semester of study. Exception must be formally requested via email to specified system will be used to deliver feedback from the committee to
the qualifying exam committee chair and approved by the graduate the student outlining strengths, weaknesses, recommendations and exam
committee. The PhD qualifying exam is offered once a semester. Each results.
PhD qualifying exam comprises of two research areas, chosen by the
student. The exam consists of the following steps: Step 4. Each member of the exam committee makes a recommendation
on the deliverables from the following list: strongly support, support, and
Step 1. A student indicates intention to take the CS PhD qualifying exam do not support. To pass the PhD qualifying exam, the student must have
by choosing two research interest areas. at least two "strongly supports" and no more than one "do not support."
If a student receives two or more "do not support" votes by the committee
- The primary test area should be the same as the research area of
members, the student fails the exam. All other cases other than pass or
the student's (potential) advisor. This exam will be more open-ended
fail are considered as conditional pass.
research than the second test area. A formal written report and a
formal presentation meeting are required for this exam. The outcome Conditional Pass Requirements
of this exam can be part of the student's dissertation research. In fact,
the student is strongly encouraged to create results that can lead to a If a student receives a conditional pass, the student is required to take
publication. It is acceptable and encouraged if the advisor is involved (an) additional test(s). The exam committee will explicitly specify the
to provide suggestions. The student is required to clearly document in deadline for the student to take the additional test in the feedback
the written report how the advisor was involved in the exam. comments to the student. The deadline will likely be in the beginning

4 Computer Science
weeks of the following semester. The additional test(s) may be the The track in Artificial Intelligence & Applied Machine Learning is targeted
whole or part(s) of the original qualifying exam or may be an additional to train recent graduates or mid-career professionals with a bachelor's
task, as determined by the exam committee. If the student passes the degree in computer science or other STEM-related field with acquired
assigned additional test, the conditional pass will be converted into a basic knowledge in programming, data structures, statistics, and linear
pass; otherwise, the outcome of the qualifying exam will be a fail. algebra.
The student is informed of the qualifying exam decision (pass, fail, or To complete the track in Artificial Intelligence & Applied Machine
conditional pass) no later than the Monday after finals week. The student Learning, students must complete 9 hours of coursework as follows:
is informed of the outcome of a conditional pass test within two weeks
after the test. A student can only fail the exam one time. If a second - Required courses:
failure occurs, the student has unsatisfactory academic performance that - DSCI 503: Advanced Data Science
results in an immediate, mandatory dismissal of the graduate student - DSCI 570: Machine Learning
from the PhD program.
- Pick one from the following:
PhD Thesis Proposal: After passing the qualifying exam, the PhD student
is allowed up to 18 months to prepare a written thesis proposal and - DSCI 530: Statistical Methods
present it formally to the student’s thesis committee and other interested
- DSCI 575: Advanced Machine Learning
faculty.
- CSCI 576: Deep Learning
Admission to Candidacy: In addition to the Graduate School
requirements, full-time PhD students must complete the following - CSCI 578: Bioinformatics (Assignments are geared towards
requirements within two calendar years of enrolling in the PhD program. analytics *)
- Have a thesis committee appointment form on file in the Graduate - CSCI 507: Computer Vision (Assignments are geared towards
Office. analytics *)
- Have passed the PhD qualifying exam demonstrating adequate
preparation for, and satisfactory ability to conduct doctoral research.
* Note: The assignments are focused on applying analytical techniques
PhD Thesis Defense: At the conclusion of the student’s PhD program, and methodologies, with an emphasis on data analysis, interpretation,
the student will be required to make a formal presentation and defense of and deriving insights from data. They are designed to develop students'
her/his thesis research. A student must pass this defense to earn a PhD skills in exploring, processing, and making data-driven decisions using
degree. various tools and frameworks commonly used in analytics.
CS Minor Track 2: Cybersecurity
A CS Minor at the PhD level requires a minimum of 12 credits of CSCI The track in Cybersecurity is targeted to train recent graduates or mid-
coursework, of which 9 credits of coursework must be at the 500- career professionals with a bachelor’s degree in computer science or
level or above excluding independent studies and graduate seminars. a related field with a foundational knowledge in programming, data
Pursuant to Graduate School rules all minors must be approved by the structures, algorithms, systems programming, statistics, and discrete
student's advisor, home department head, and a faculty representative of math.
the minor area of study. A minor may not be taken in the student's major
area of study. To complete the track in Cybersecurity, students must complete 9 hours
of coursework as follows:
PROFESSIONAL MASTERS DEGREE IN
- Required courses:
COMPUTER SCIENCE
- CSCI 574: Theory of Cryptography
To earn a professional master’s (MP-NT) degree, students must complete
30 credits as outlined below. The program is composed of four flexible - CSCI 585: Information Security and Privacy
tracks from the options listed. To complete the 30 credit hours, students
would be required to complete any 3 tracks, along with an additional
- Pick one from the following:
elective course. The required elective course may be fulfilled by any
CSCI course from the track options listed if it is not being used to
- CSCI 560: Fundamentals of Computer Networks
complete one of their chosen tracks. At least 7 out of 10 required courses
MUST be CSCI/DSCI. Students may enroll in the professional master’s - CSCI 587: Cyber Physical Systems Security
program from the outset and take courses from the various tracks in any
order.
Track 3: Analytics and Project Management
Our Professional Master’s program launched in Fall 2025. We will
increase the number of courses available for the MP-NT in CS degree The track in Analytics and Project Management is targeted to train
over the coming semesters to give both students and faculty more recent graduates or mid-career professionals with a bachelor's degree
flexibility with offerings: in computer science or other STEM-related field with acquired basic
knowledge in programming, data structures, statistics, and linear algebra.
Track 1: Artificial Intelligence & Applied Machine Learning

To complete the track in Analytics and Project Management, students in programming, data structures, algorithms, systems programming,
must complete 9 hours of coursework as follows statistics, and discrete math.
- Required course: To complete the online Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity, students
must complete 9 hours of coursework as follows:
- EBGN 525: Business Analytics
- Required Courses:
- Pick two from the following: o CSCI 574: Theory of Cryptography
- EBGN553: Project Management o CSCI 585: Information Security and Privacy
- EBGN 563: Management of Technology and Innovation (taught - Pick one from the following:
by Scott Houser)
o CSCI 560: Fundamentals of Computer Networks
- EBGN 565: Marketing for Technology-based companies
o CSCI 587: Cyber Physical Systems Security
- EBGN 571: Marketing Analytics
While all courses are to be delivered online, students that are interested
- EBGN 577: Leading and Managing High Performance Teams in attending an on-campus class may substitute one of the above courses
with a pre-approved elective as listed in our Graduate Catalog.
Projects in these courses would focus on software development or data FUTURE PLANS
science/machine learning, with an emphasis on requiring more in-depth
software development and analysis. As the online program expands, we In the 2025-2026 academic year, we aim to expand our course offerings
plan to add more computer science-oriented courses to this certificate in collaboration with our external advisory committee to meet the evolving
track, such as cybersecurity leadership and operations. needs of working professionals. Based on our ongoing conversations,
we plan to introduce a new course focused on Cybersecurity Leadership
Track 4: #Advanced Software Technologies and Operations to address key industry priorities. This course, designed
to support students in preparing for the CISSP exam from ISC2, will
The track in Advanced Software Technologies is targeted to train
complement the following curriculum:
recent graduates or mid-career professionals with a bachelor's degree
in computer science or other STEM-related field with acquired basic - Required Courses:
knowledge in programming, data structures, and software engineering.
o CSCI 574: Theory of Cryptography
To complete the track in Advanced Software Technologies, students
must complete 9 hours of coursework as follows: o CSCI 585: Information Security and Privacy
- Required courses: - Pick one from the following:
- CSCI 520: Software Engineering Systems Development I o CSCI 560: Fundamentals of Computer Networks
- CSCI 521: Software Engineering Systems Development II o CSCI 587: Cyber Physical Systems Security
o CSCI 5xx: Cybersecurity Leadership and Operations (this course
- Pick one from the following: is added to help prepare students for the CISSP exam from ISC2).
- CSCI 578: Bioinformatics (Assignments are geared towards Courses
software design ^)
CSCI500. GRADUATE SEMINAR. 0.0 Semester Hrs.
- CSCI 507: Computer Vision (Assignments are geared towards This zero-credit graduate course builds on the CS department seminars
software design ^) in the colloquium series, which consist of presentations delivered by
external or internal invited speakers on topics broadly related to computer
science. The seminar is mandatory for all Ph.D. students. The students
^ Note: The assignments are focused on developing and applying are required to enroll in the course every semester. Any student who
software design principles, emphasizing the creation of robust, scalable, cannot take the course for valid reasons should notify their advisor, who
and efficient systems. They are designed to enhance students' skills will then make a request to the CS graduate committee for a waiver.
in structuring, designing, and implementing software solutions, while These requests could be for the duration of one semester or longer. The
considering best practices, design patterns, and user needs within real- course will be graded as PRG/PRU based on student attendance at the
world scenarios. k department seminars in the colloquium series - the student has to attend
at least two thirds of all the seminars each semester in order to get a
Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity
PRG grade.
Course Learning Outcomes
The online Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity is targeted to train
recent graduates or mid-career professionals with a bachelor’s degree
CSCI507. INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER VISION. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
in computer science or a related field with a foundational knowledge
Equivalent with CSCI437,CSCI512,EENG507,EENG512,

6 Computer Science
(I) Computer vision is the process of using computers to acquire images, - Create a moderately complex software application that integrates
transform images, and extract symbolic descriptions from images. This one or more software design patterns to ensure reusability,
course provides an introduction to this field, covering topics in image maintainability, and adherence to object-oriented design principles.
formation, feature extraction, location estimation, and object recognition. - Evaluate an object-oriented software design based on its flexibility,
Design ability and hands-on projects will be emphasized, using popular extensibility, and maintainability, using SOLID principles and object-
software tools. The course will be of interest both to those who want to oriented best practices.
learn more about the subject and to those who just want to use computer
- Transfer design principles derived from patterns to refactor existing
imaging techniques. 3 hours lecture; 3 semester hours. Prerequisite:
object-oriented systems and to develop high-quality solutions for new
Undergraduate level knowledge of linear algebra, statistics, and a
software design scenarios.
programming language.
- Analyze a software design problem to select and justify an
Course Learning Outcomes
appropriate design based on the problem context and design goals.
- 1. Be able to analyze and predict the behavior of image formation, - Analyze object-oriented software designs to identify antipatterns and
transformation, and recognition algorithms their impact on system quality and maintainability.
- 2. Be able to design, develop, and evaluate algorithms for specific - Create UML diagrams to communicate software design decisions
applications and justify those decisions based on design principles and problem
- 3. Be able to use software tools to implement computer vision context.
algorithms
CSCI520. SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT I.
- 4. Communicate (in oral and written form) methods and results to a
3.0 Semester Hrs.
technical audience
This is the first course of the two-semester sequence. In this course
you will be addressing realistic, open-ended design changes for clients
CSCI508. ADVANCED TOPICS IN PERCEPTION AND COMPUTER
in interdisciplinary (when appropriate) teams. The design projects are
VISION. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
chosen by the course faculty to develop creativity, encourage use of
Equivalent with EENG508,
appropriate design methods and application of technical skills. You are
(II) This course covers advanced topics in perception and computer
expected to successfully address the given challenge. The devised
vision, emphasizing research advances in the field. The course focuses
solution in partnership with the client must be within the constraints of
on structure and motion estimation, general object detection and
elements such as cost, sustainability, manufacturability/deployment.
recognition, and tracking. Projects will be emphasized, using popular
Projects many be both hardware and software focused. By the end of the
software tools. Prerequisites: EENG507 or CSCI507. 3 hours lecture; 3
first semester, teams should have a fully defined the system architecture,
semester hours.
specifications, and operation. Solution components have been modeled,
Course Learning Outcomes
analyzed and selected and a proof-of-concept protype developed to
- 1. Be able to review the literature on computer vision and create a demonstrate the solution to the client.
critical review Course Learning Outcomes
- 2. Be able to design, develop, and evaluate algorithms for specific
- Develop and maintain a project management plan to address a
applications
software engineering design challenge that includes a clear definition
- 3. Be able to use software tools to implement computer vision of done and detailed project schedule.
algorithms
- Formulate a clear, concise set of correctly constructed engineering
- 4. Communicate (in oral and written form) methods and results to a metrics/constraints and specifications for a software/hardware
technical audience engineering design challenge.
- Develop and graphically communicate multiple innovative high-level
CSCI519. SOFTWARE DESIGN PATTERNS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
design solutions to a given software/hardware engineering challenge.
This course focuses on fundamental software design patterns for object-
oriented design to create extensible and maintainable software solutions. - Utilize decision methods to select the most promising solutions(s) that
Design patterns provide time tested solution templates to recurring meet(s) constraints and requirements for the given design challenge.
architectural challenges in com ex software systems. Core topics include - Develop a proof-of-concept protype(s) for the critical and high-risk
Gang of Four (GoF) design patterns, antipatterns, and refactoring functional elements of the design challenge.
to patterns, where students apply multiple patterns in conjunction to - Develop a project completion plan and execute Agile project
modify non-toy code examples. The Model-View-Controller (MVC) development methodology that allows the team to successfully meet
architecture is examined as a compound pattern to dissect how individual the project goals.
patterns interact within a larger system. Lectures are supplemented by - Apply appropriate technical knowledge to solve a design challenge.
in-class exercises focused on UML modeling or code implementation.
- Communicate your engineering design, research, analysis, decision
Assignments require students to solve specific scenarios by providing a
making and solution via professional, technical, and industry
design justification, UML diagrams, and implementation, all of which are
appropriate written documentation packages.
evaluated against SOLID principles. By the end of the course, students
- Communicate technical information verbally as part of a sprint or
will be able to efficiently communicate program structures and develop
design review and synthesize feedback from stakeholders and
high-quality, professional software. Prerequisites: CSCI306.
clients.
Course Learning Outcomes
- Identify and analyze the ethical, environmental, societal and/or
economic impact of considered design solutions.

- Function effectively on a team whose members together provide - 1 - Understand the basic ethical theories, concepts, tools, and
leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, frameworks for analyzing the social and ethical ramifications of
establish goals, plan tasks and meet design challenge objectives. robotics
- Evaluate your success as a designer by reflecting on your experience - 2 - Be able to critically examine the ethical significance of the
and proposing strategies for future self-improvement. use of robotics in daily and technical fields including human-robot
interaction, medicine, relationship, military, etc.
CSCI521. SOFTWARE ENGINEERING SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT II. - 3 - Develop a critical attitude toward the role of robotics in shaping
3.0 Semester Hrs. human society including human perceptions and behaviors
This is the second course of the two-semester sequence. In this course
- 4 - Be able to use the theories, concepts, tools, and frameworks
you will be addressing realistic, open-ended design changes for clients
learned from this class to critically examine emerging robot ethics
in interdisciplinary (when appropriate) teams. The design projects are
issues in the society.
chosen by the course faculty to develop creativity, encourage use of
- 5 - Understand the tradeoffs underlying the design of autonomous
appropriate design methods and application of technical skills. You are
moral agents.
expected to successfully address the given challenge. The devised
solution in partnership with the client must be within the constraints of - 6 - Conduct robot ethics research grounded in both human-subject
elements such as cost, sustainability, manufacturability/deployment. experimentation and algorithm development.
Projects many be both hardware and software focused. By the end of the
first semester, teams should have a fully defined the system architecture, CSCI533. PLANNING FOR SENSING, PERCEPTION, AND
specifications, and operation. Solution components have been modeled, COVERAGE. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
analyzed and selected and a proof-of-concept prototype developed to Sensing and coverage planning are ubiquitous in robots. How can a
demonstrate the solution to the client. Prerequisites: CSCI520. robot vacuum efficiently move about to clean your floors? How should
Course Learning Outcomes teams of robots coordinate to photograph growing crops or survey
a population of penguins? What observations should robots take to
- Design an engineering solution for your given design challenge within inspect a building or film an athlete? How should you assign tasks and
constraints. resources in a multi-robot team? In this course, we will study planning
- Demonstrate design feasibility through engineering analysis. and (often combinatorial) optimization methods that connect all of these
problems. Prerequisites: Graduate standing; Recommended: CSCI 406
- Identify project and/or technical risks and develop a proactive risk
(Algorithms); CSCI 358 (Discrete Mathematics).
mitigation plan.
Course Learning Outcomes
- Test and analyze a solution.
- Deploy a solution into the environment within constraints. - Formulate relevant optimization problems.
- Develop a project completion plan and execute Agile project - Analyze optimization problems.
development methodology that allows the team to successfully meet - Prove properties of planning algorithms.
the project goals.
- Design and implementation of relevant methods.
- Apply appropriate technical knowledge to solve a design challenge.
- Research reading and communication.
- Communicate your engineering design, research, analysis, decision
- Design and solution for perception planning and sensing.
making and solution via professional, technical, and industry
- Identification of applications of theory.
appropriate written documentation packages.
- Communication of research works.
- Communicate technical information verbally as part of a sprint or
design review and synthesize feedback from stakeholders and - Breadth of applications.
clients.
CSCI534. ROBOT PLANNING AND MANIPULATION. 3.0 Semester
- Identify and analyze the ethical, environmental, societal and/or
Hrs.
economic impact of considered design solutions.
An introduction to planning in the context of robotics covering symbolic
- Function effectively on a team whose members together provide and motion planning approaches. Symbolic computation, symbolic
leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, domains, and efficient algorithms for symbolic planning; Robot
establish goals, plan tasks and meet design challenge objectives. kinematics, configuration spaces, and algorithms for motion planning.
- Evaluate your success as a designer by reflecting on your experience Applications of planning will focus on manipulation problems using robot
and proposing strategies for future self-improvement. arms.
Course Learning Outcomes
CSCI532. ROBOT ETHICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
(II) This course explores ethical issues arising in robotics and - 1 - Implement algorithms for symbolic computation
human-robot interaction through philosophical analysis, scientific - 2 - Construct symbolic planning domains for new scenarios
experimentation, and algorithm design. Topics include case studies in - 3 - Implement algorithms for symbolic planning via constraint-solving
lethal autonomous weapon systems, autonomous cars, and social robots, and heuristic search
as well as higher-level concerns including economics, law, policy, and
- 4 - Implement algorithms for sampling-based motion planning
discrimination. Graduate enrollees will additionally participate in and
- 5 - Construct kinematic models of robot manipulators
report on the results of empirical and computational robot ethics research,
with the goal of developing publishable works. Prerequisite: Graduate - 6 - Analyze planning algorithms for key properties: correctness,
student standing. completeness, optimality
Course Learning Outcomes - 7 - Evaluate the suitability of different planning approaches and apply
appropriate algorithms to new planning scenarios

8 Computer Science
- 8 - Communicate implementations, analysis, and evaluation in written and experiment with running them on real-world sensor data to build
and oral form 3D environment maps.
- Learn standard benchmarking metrics used to evaluate the
CSCI536. HUMAN-ROBOT INTERACTION. 3.0 Semester Hrs. performance of SLAM systems, and implement them to critically
Human-Robot Interaction is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection assess the accuracy, efficiency, and robustness of these systems.
of Computer Science, Robotics, Psychology, and Human Factors, that
- Build a complete SLAM pipeline from scratch in a team-based
seeks to answer a broad set of questions about robots designed to
project, and develop an understanding of the required real-world
interact with humans (e.g., assistive robots, educational robots, and
trade-offs between performance, runtime, and robustness.
service robots), such as: (1) How does human interaction with robots
- Identify existing challenges and open problems in SLAM, and
differ from interaction with other people? (2) How does the appearance
propose innovative research directions to advance the state of the
and behavior of a robot change how humans perceive, trust, and interact
field.
with that robot? And (3) How can we design and program robots that
are natural, trustworthy, and effective? Accordingly, In this course,
CSCI538. AUGMENTED REALITY. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
students will learn (1) how to design interactive robots, (2) the algorithmic
Augmented reality is the process of augmenting the real world with
foundations of interactive robots; and (3) how to evaluate interactive
virtual content, typically with hand-held or head-mounted displays.
robots. To achieve these learning objectives, students will read and
This course will provide an overview of augmented reality, including
present key papers from the HRI literature, complete an individual final
applications, technical foundations (computer vision, optics, graphics,
project tailored to their unique interests and skillsets, and complete a
and human factors), and recent developments in the field. Projects
group project in which they will design, pilot, and evaluate novel HRI
will be emphasized, using popular software tools. Augmented reality
experiments, with in-class time expected to be split between lecture
is a systems-thinking problem where it is helpful to have a good
by the instructor, presentations by students, and either collaborative
understanding of several areas, including computer vision, optics,
active learning activities or discussions with researchers in the field.
graphics, and human-computer interaction. Projects will provide students
Prerequisite: Data Structures, Probability and Statistics or equivalent.
with opportunities to gain a deeper understanding of these areas, as well
Course Learning Outcomes
as to build a portfolio for possible future careers in augmented reality.
- Understand the theoretical foundations and critical application Course Learning Outcomes
domains of human-robot interaction.
- At the completion of the course, you will be able to:
- Employ design techniques to design interactive robots.
- Design human-subject experiments to evaluate interactive robots. CSCI542. SIMULATION. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- Perform qualitative and quantitative analysis on the results of human- (I) Advanced study of computational and mathematical techniques
robot interaction experiments. for modeling, simulating, and analyzing the performance of various
systems. Simulation permits the evaluation of performance prior to
CSCI537. ROBOTIC MAPPING AND LOCALIZATION. 3.0 Semester the implementation of a system; it permits the comparison of various
Hrs. operational alternatives without perturbing the real system. Topics to
This course introduces the principles and techniques of simultaneous be covered include simulation techniques, random number generation,
localization and mapping (SLAM), a core capability in modern robotics. Monte Carlo simulations, discrete and continuous stochastic models,
Students will learn how to leverage robot sensors (including cameras and point/interval estimation. Offered every other year. 3 hours lecture; 3
and laser scanners) to construct 3D maps of an environment and semester hours.
estimate the robot’s position within it. The course covers both the front-
CSCI544. ADVANCED COMPUTER GRAPHICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
end techniques, which process raw sensor data (e.g., camera images)
Equivalent with MATH544,
to generate initial 3D maps and position estimates, and the back-end
This is an advanced computer graphics course in which students will
techniques, which refine these outputs by filtering outliers, optimizing
learn a
trajectories, and fusing local maps into a consistent global representation.
variety of mathematical and algorithmic techniques that can be used to
The course includes hands-on homework and projects in which students
solve
will implement SLAM algorithms and test them on real-world data
fundamental problems in computer graphics. Topics include global
collected by robots. Prerequisites: No official prerequisites, but requires
illumination,
knowledge of - Linear algebra, calculus, probability, and statistics - Linux,
GPU programming, geometry acquisition and processing, point based
Algorithms, C++, and Python - Computer vision.
graphics
Course Learning Outcomes
and non-photorealistic rendering. Students will learn about modern
rendering and
- Learn foundational mathematical tools (from linear algebra,
geometric modeling techniques by reading and discussing research
optimization, and statistics) and use them to formulate, analyze, and
papers and
solve different problems in robotic mapping and localization.
implementing one or more of the algorithms described in the literature.
- Develop a deep understanding of front-end SLAM techniques,
including feature extraction, pinhole camera modeling, and multi-view CSCI555. GAME THEORY AND NETWORKS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
geometry, to generate initial 3D maps and pose estimates. Equivalent with CSCI455,
(II) An introduction to fundamental concepts of game theory with a
- Develop a deep understanding of back-end SLAM techniques,
focus on the applications in networks. Game theory is the study that
including graph optimization, outlier rejection, and loop closure, to
analyzes the strategic interactions among autonomous decision-makers.
refine local maps into consistent global representations.
Originated from economics. Influenced many areas in Computer Science,
- Integrate state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms in Python or C++, learn
including artificial intelligence, e-commerce, theory, and security and
how to use them in the Robot Operating System (ROS) framework,
privacy. Provides tools and knowledge for modeling and analyzing real-

world problems. Prerequisites: CSCI406 Algorithms. 3 hours lecture; 3 - Formally prove capabilities and limits, such as decidability and
semester hours. complexity of new problems, based on computational classes.
Course Learning Outcomes - Evaluate potentially effective (or ineffective) approaches for new
problems based on language and complexity class.
- 1. Understand the basic concepts in game theory
- Apply reduction techniques to show the equivalence between
- 2. Be able to model and analyze real-world problems as games
different computational problems.
- 3. Learn about the game theoretic applications in networks
- 4. Have the opportunity to apply game theory to other fields CSCI562. APPLIED ALGORITHMS AND DATA STRUCTURES. 3.0
Semester Hrs.
CSCI560. FUNDAMENTALS OF COMPUTER NETWORKS. 3.0 (II) Industry competitiveness in certain areas is often based on the use
Semester Hrs. of better algorithms and data structures. The objective of this class is
This course provides an introduction to fundamental concepts in the to survey some interesting application areas and to understand the
design and implementation of computer communication networks, core algorithms and data structures that support these applications.
their protocols, and applications. Topics include overview of network Application areas could change with each offering of the class, but would
architectures, applications, network programming interfaces (e.g., include some of the following: VLSI design automation, computational
sockets), transport, congestion, routing, and data link protocols, biology, mobile computing, computer security, data compression, web
addressing, local area networks, wireless networks, and network security. search engines, geographical information systems. 3 hours lecture; 3
Examples are drawn primarily from the Internet (e.g., TCP, UDP, and IP) semester hours. Prerequisite: CSCI406.
protocol suite. If you have taken CSCI 471, you will not receive credit for Course Learning Outcomes
this course. Prerequisite: CSCI442.
Course Learning Outcomes - Communicate effectively on matters related to algorithms and data
structures to a range of audiences using a range of media.
- Given a packet capture and using the mental picture of TCP/IP - Solve moderately open-ended problems related to graphs, NP
networking you have developed, formulate a hypothesis about the completeness, approximation algorithms, and geometric algorithms.
behavior of the network from which the capture was taken. If the
- Demonstrate attention to detail (with respect to definitions,
network is not behaving correctly generate a plausible explanation
terminology, notation, language) as measured by performance on
about what is wrong.
multiple-choice and true-false questions on online-quizzes.
- In this course students will be expected to learn the details of
- Execute a sequence of increasingly difficult (but guided) research
8 protocols (they will be introduced to more, but don’t need to
related tasks related to an important application area that requires.
internalize those). For each of the 8 protocols students will be
- Function effectively as a team member with effectiveness being
expected to evaluate a hypothetical network environment and
determined by peer ratings, self-assessment and instructor
determine if a proposed protocol or protocol feature is appropriate in
observations.
that environment.
- Use common network analysis tools including Ping, Wireshark, and
CSCI563. PARALLEL COMPUTING FOR SCIENTISTS AND
Traceroute.
ENGINEERS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- Design and implement network communication tools using the (I) Students are taught how to use parallel computing to solve complex
standard Socket() programming library. scientific problems. They learn how to develop parallel programs, how to
- Know the source of standards documents, analyze those documents analyze their performance, and how to optimize program performance.
and evaluate the limits of standards-based technology. The course covers the classification of parallel computers, shared
- Apply knowledge of network design principles to alternative protocols memory versus distributed memory machines, software issues, and
and stacks. hardware issues in parallel computing. Students write programs for state
of the art high performance supercomputers, which are accessed over
- Evaluate proposed network/protocol design against common
the network. Prerequisite: Programming experience in C. 3 hours lecture;
information security standards.
3 semester hours.
CSCI561. THEORY OF COMPUTATION. 3.0 Semester Hrs. Course Learning Outcomes
(I) An introduction to abstract models of computation and computability
- Develop parallel programs to solve complex scientific problems using
theory; including finite automata (finite state machines), pushdown
both shared memory and distributed memory models.
automata, and Turing machines. Language models, including formal
- Analyze and optimize the performance of parallel algorithms to
languages, regular expressions, and grammars. Decidability and
achieve efficient computational solutions.
undecidability of computational problems. 3 hours lecture; 3 semester
hours. Prerequisite: CSCI406. - Classify and differentiate between various parallel computing
Course Learning Outcomes architectures and understand the associated hardware and software
challenges.
- Design and implement various types of automata, including finite - Gain hands-on experience with high-performance supercomputers by
automata, pushdown automata, and Turing machines. writing, testing, and debugging parallel applications over networked
- Model and solve computational problems using formal language environments.
representations and algorithms.
- Communicate effectively using mathematically precise terminology, CSCI564. ADVANCED COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE. 3.0 Semester
particularly about topics in language and complexity theory. Hrs.
The objective of this class is to gain a detailed understanding about the
options available to a computer architect when designing a computer

10 Computer Science
system along with quantitative justifications for the options. All aspects topics include wireless and mobile networks, multimedia networking,
of modern computer architectures including instruction sets, processor and network security. In addition, recent research and developments
design, memory system design, storage system design, multiprocessors, are also studied, which include mobile sensing, Internet of Things (IoT),
and software approaches will be discussed. Prerequisite: CSCI341. 3 social computing and networks, mobile ad-hoc networks, wireless sensor
hours lecture; 3 semester hours. networks, software defined networking, and future Internet architecture.
Course Learning Outcomes Course Learning Outcomes
- Understand quantitative methods to evaluate system performance, - Articulate wireless networking challenges.
including metrics and benchmarks. - Describe wireless MAC layer protocols.
- Analyze the design and optimization of memory hierarchies, including - Describe the design of WiFi networks and Cellular networks.
caches and virtual memory.
- Use network sniffing tools to characterize the impact of physical
- Understand CPU pipelines, focusing on throughput and instruction environments on wireless signal propagation.
scheduling.
- Use a network simulator to evaluate the performance of routing
- Understand the techniques for speculative execution and branch protocols for wireless ad-hoc networks.
prediction.
- Analyze WiFi's MAC layer protocol in different scenarios using a
- Understand the GPU architecture. network simulator.
- Review recent wireless networking research.
CSCI565. DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
This course discusses concepts, techniques, and issues in developing
CSCI573. ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND PERCEPTION. 3.0 Semester
distributed systems in large scale networked environment. Topics include
Hrs.
theory and systems level issues in the design and implementation of
Equivalent with CSCI473,
distributed systems.
In this class students will learn the basics of integrated robot system
Course Learning Outcomes
programming and the design and use of algorithms for robot perception.
Students will learn how to use the ROS robot middleware for the
- Analyze complexity of distributed algorithms.
design of robot systems for perceiving and navigating the world;
- Prove correctness of distributed algorithms.
develop reinforcement learning based models for perception-informed
- Implement virtual clocks. autonomous navigation; and develop computational models for 3D robot
- Implement and evaluate distributed minimum spanning tree perception and perceptual representation of human data.
algorithms. Course Learning Outcomes
- Implement distributed mutual exclusion algorithms.
- 1. Explain the basic concepts in human-centered robotics
- Compare and contrast distributed leader election algorithms.
- 2. Model and analyze human behaviors for human-robot interaction
- Implement different data-centric and client-centric consistency
applications
models.
- 3. Recognize the cutting-edge human-centered robotics reasearch
- Review recent distributed systems research.
and applications
CSCI568. DATA MINING. 3.0 Semester Hrs. - 4. Apply the learned knowledge to other fields
This course is an introductory course in data mining. It covers
CSCI574. THEORY OF CRYPTOGRAPHY. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
fundamentals of data mining theories and techniques. We will discuss
Equivalent with MATH574,
association rule mining and its applications, overview of classification
(I) Students will draw upon current research results to design, implement
and clustering, data preprocessing, and several application specific data
and analyze their own computer security or other related cryptography
mining tasks. We will also discuss practical data mining using a data
projects. The requisite mathematical background, including relevant
mining software. Project assignments include implementation of existing
aspects of number theory and mathematical statistics, will be covered
data mining algorithms, data mining with or without data mining software,
in lecture. Students will be expected to review current literature from
and study of data mining related research issues. 3 hours lecture; 3
prominent researchers in cryptography and to present their findings
semester hours.
to the class. Particular focus will be given to the application of various
CSCI571. ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE. 3.0 Semester Hrs. techniques to real-life situations. The course will also cover the following
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is the subfield of computer science that studies aspects of cryptography: symmetric and asymmetric encryption,
how to automate tasks for which people currently exhibit superior computational number theory, quantum encryption, RSA and discrete log
performance over computers. Historically, AI has studied problems such systems, SHA, steganography, chaotic and pseudo-random sequences,
as machine learning, language understanding, game playing, planning, message authentication, digital signatures, key distribution and key
robotics, and machine vision. AI techniques include those for uncertainty management, and block ciphers. Prerequisite: CSCI262. 3 hours lecture,
management, automated theorem proving, heuristic search, neural 3 semester hours.
networks, and simulation of expert performance in specialized domains Course Learning Outcomes
like medical diagnosis. This course provides an overview of the field of
Artificial Intelligence. Particular attention will be paid to learning the LISP - Explain the basic terms and concepts in cryptography.
language for AI programming. Prerequisite: CSCI262. - Correlate number theory with cryptography.
CSCI572. COMPUTER NETWORKS II. 3.0 Semester Hrs. - Analyze the limitations of classical cryptographic algorithms.
This course explores how computer networking is evolving to support - Compare the similarities and differences between symmetric and
new environments, and challenges in building networked systems that asymmetric encryption algorithms.
are simultaneously highly robust, efficient, flexible, and secure. Detailed

- Assess the security strength of cryptographic techniques. - Demonstrate clear communication of deep learning results and
- Choose appropriate cryptographic techniques such as hashing, insights to both technical and non-technical audiences.
message authentication, and digital signature for addressing real-
world security and privacy problems. CSCI577. ADVANCED ELEMENTS OF GAMES AND GAME
DEVELOPMENT. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- Critique research work in applied cryptography.
This course provides an overview of computer and video game
development along with practical game projects designed to introduce
CSCI575. ADVANCED MACHINE LEARNING. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
the student to the computer entertainment industry. Topics will include
Machine learning is the study of computer algorithms that improve
the nature of games, the game player, game play, game design, game
automatically through experience. Machine learning systems do not
mechanics, story and character, game worlds, interface and the game
have to be programmed by humans to solve a problem; instead, they
development process. Students will be required to develop code in
essentially program themselves based on examples of how they should
existing game engines (GameMaker, Unity, and Unreal). Students will
behave, or based on trial and error experience trying to solve the
also work on a game engine from scratch, using a hybrid software design
problem. This course aims at provide students with an understanding
pattern that is an object-oriented hierarchy with components. The majority
of the capabilities of machine learning (especially for deep learning
of the course will be dedicated to a semester-long game project where
due to its state-of-the-art performance for predicting and understanding
students will create a complete game with a teammate using Agile
data), and the knowledge to formulate the real-world problem to solve it
principles, a backlog, a design document, demos, and a final product with
effectively by a combination of computational idea motivations, learning
commercial video. Prerequisite: CSCI 306.
theories, mathematical and optimization backgrounds/tools. Prerequisite:
Course Learning Outcomes
CSCI470.
Course Learning Outcomes
CSCI578. BIOINFORMATICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
This course contains 4 main modules organized around different data
- Understand the different types of machine learning and some popular
types produced by biotechnological assays, i.e., DNA/protein sequences,
methods in each.
protein structures, gene activity levels, relationships between biological
- Be able to use machine learning methods in real-world applications.
entities. Students will have a chance to interact with different public
- Be able to determine applicable machine learning techniques for datasets and experiment with different tools and platforms with hands-on
different datasets. exercises. The main objective of the course is to provide the student with
- Understand how to use machine learning to learn features from high a solid foundation for conducting further research in bioinformatics. By
dimensional or complex data. the end of the course, the students will have learned: the bioinformatics
- Understand the ethical implications of machine learning models. terminology, main bioinformatics problems, and the key computational
methods and tools used in bioinformatics. Prerequisites: Prior experience
CSCI576. DEEP LEARNING. 3.0 Semester Hrs. with introductory programming concepts.
Machine Learning is a key component of Artificial Intelligence that Course Learning Outcomes
allows computers to generate accurate outcomes without being explicitly
programmed. Over the past decade, machine learning has powered - Construct a systems level abstraction of the dynamics of a cell
speech recognition, augmented reality, self-driving vehicles, and by relating components of the cell such as genes, proteins, and
biometric authentications. The purpose of this course is to bridge general metabolic reactions
machine learning concepts to real world applications. This course - Design and implement algorithms for solving pairwise, multiple
provides a broad introduction to machine learning (supervised learning, sequence alignments, and search sequence databases using
unsupervised learning, feature learning), deep learning, computer vision, sequences from NCBI GenBank or Uniprot
natural language processing, and reinforcement learning. During the - Design and implement algorithms for constructing phylogenetic trees
course, students will design a project that applies concepts from class for a set of biological sequences and apply them on real datasets on
to several diGerent real-world problems and challenges and create sequence families, such as SARS-CoV-2 variants
applications to solve them. Prerequisite: CSCI470. - Apply existing tools to predict protein structures from sequence and
Course Learning Outcomes compare multiple protein structures using sequences from Uniprot
and structures from the Protein Data Bank
- Design deep learning models to address supervised and
unsupervised learning tasks implemented in Python that meet - Interpret and analyze transcriptome data such as microarray data or
evaluation criteria such as accuracy, F1 score, and mean-square RNA-Seq data by to reveal clusters of genes/samples and identify
error. differentially expressed genes
- Apply state-of-the-art deep learning architectures for computer vision - Design and implement algorithms for analyzing biological networks
tasks involving object detection, image generation, and self-driving such as protein-protein interaction networks, gene-regulatory
vehicles. networks, and metabolic networks
- Develop deep learning models for natural language processing tasks
CSCI580. ADVANCED HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING. 3.0
using pre-trained transformers.
Semester Hrs.
- Utilize Markov Decision Process, Monte Carlo Method, and deep This course provides students with knowledge of the fundamental
reinforcement learning techniques to solve sequential decision- concepts of high performance computing as well as hands-on experience
making problems. with the core technology in the field. The objective of this class is
- Evaluate ethical challenges in deep learning models, including bias, to understand how to achieve high performance on a wide range of
fairness, transparency, and interpretability. computational platforms. Topics will include sequential computers
including memory hierarchies, shared memory computers and multicore,
distributed memory computers, graphical processing units (GPUs), cloud

12 Computer Science
and grid computing, threads, OpenMP, message passing (MPI), CUDA understand how they are programmed, and comprehend their role
(for GPUs), parallel file systems, and scientific applications. 3 hours and importance in modern computing.
lecture; 3 semester hours. - Improve critical thinking and analysis abilities on accelerated
Course Learning Outcomes computing research and practice technical presentation of concepts
and papers in both spoken and written forms.
- Develop skills to design, implement, and debug parallel programs
- Measure and analyze performance of the state-of-the-art system-on-
using frameworks like MPI and OpenMP.
chips for autonomous and mobile computing using industry-standard
- Learn to analyze and optimize computational performance on multi-
parallel-programming languages, paradigms, and APIs.
core and distributed systems.
- Understand and apply algorithms that efficiently scale across high- CSCI583. IOT SECURITY AND PRIVACY. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
performance computing architectures. The use of IoT (Internet-of-Things) devices in U.S. homes is becoming
- Gain familiarity with HPC tools, libraries, and systems to solve increasingly popular. These smart devices, however, come with a range
complex computational problems effectively. of security and privacy risks that need to be addressed. This course
focuses on teaching the basics and advanced concepts of IoT security
CSCI581. QUANTUM PROGRAMMING. 3.0 Semester Hrs. and privacy from a data-driven perspective. It covers topics such as
This course serves as an introduction to programming quantum networking and Internet security, as well as security research based on
computers. Students will receive an in depth education in quantum data analysis. Students will be required to read and present academic
algorithms and their design, and then break into teams to learn the API papers from various disciplines such as computer science, psychology,
of a commercially available quantum computing system. They will use policy, and law. The course also includes hands-on projects that allow
this system to write and test simple quantum algorithms, and debug their students to independently investigate real-world security and privacy
code to improve its performance against noise and other error sources. issues of IoT devices and suggest practical solutions to fix them. Through
Prerequisite: PHGN519. this course, students will develop a comprehensive understanding of the
Course Learning Outcomes security and privacy challenges posed by IoT devices and learn how to
approach these issues in a data-driven and evidence-based manner.
- Building on the education received in Fundamentals of Quantum
Course Learning Outcomes
Information, students will learn:
- 1. How to write and implement simple quantum algorithms, - Develop a comprehensive understanding of the security and privacy
- 2. Understand mechanisms by which a quantum speedup can be challenges posed by IoT devices.
obtained - Approach these issues in a data-driven and evidence-based manner.
- 3. Use and execute code on an API of publicly available quantum - Read, understand, present, and critique IoT academic papers.
hardware (e.g. IBM’s qiskit, Rigetti’s Forest, Google’s forthcoming - Analyze, formulate and address IoT security and privacy research
Cirq, and many more) problems.
- 4. “Debug” their code to improve its performance given the realities of - Master cutting-edge IoT data analysis techniques using AI models
noise and gate error (e.g., generative and embedded AI).
CSCI582. COMPUTING BEYOND CPU'S. 3.0 Semester Hrs. CSCI584. CYBER THREAT INTELLIGENCE: UNDERSTANDING THE
CPUs are no longer fast enough to execute demanding tasks in emerging ADVERSARY AND THE DEFENDER. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
domains such as artificial intelligence, robotics and mobile computing. Cyber threats have a pervasive impact on governments, corporations,
Most modern systems come with specialized, i.e., “beyond the CPU”, and everyday life, from cybercriminal theft of billions of dollars to terrorist
processing units such as GPUs, neural network processors, and use of online networks for recruitment and propaganda. This course
other domain-specific accelerators. This class will provide students introduces students to cyber threat intelligence (CTI) as a discipline that
with knowledge and hands-on experience with accelerators. We supports decision#making by analyzing adversaries, campaigns, and
will dig deep into the world of specialized computing and: (a) teach system vulnerabilities. Students explore intelligence collection, analysis,
students the fundamental computer architecture concepts that lead operations, and failures across both public and private sectors, with
to the development of accelerators, (b) let the students know about a focus on U.S. intelligence while incorporating global perspectives.
modern accelerators, their internal architectures, and how to program Through case studies, hands#on exercises, and simulations, learners
them to solve many prevalent computational problems in an energy examine advanced persistent threat (APT) groups, cybercriminal
and performance efficient way, and (c) provide students a hands-on networks, and non#state actors to understand their tactics, techniques,
experience by implementing and running benchmarks on an accelerator and procedures (TTPs), successes, and shortcomings. Students produce
of their choice and perform a detailed performance analysis. The course professional deliverables, including policy memos, attack surface
assignments will include weekly paper reading, mini programming assessments, and detailed adversary profiles, which are presented in
assignments, paper presentations (one or two times in the semester) and class. Additional activities include daily current#event presentations
a semester project that will be carried out on an accelerator of student’s and collaborative group work representing CTI teams. By the end of the
choice. The students will be given access to a diverse range of modern course, students will be able to define intelligence and its disciplines,
heterogeneous processing units that are designed to accelerate mobile, explain cyber adversary operations, analyze attacks and campaigns,
cloud and autonomous workloads. Prerequisite: CSCI 341. apply intelligence analysis principles, assess intelligence limitations,
Course Learning Outcomes create professional CTI deliverables, and identify career opportunities
in cybersecurity. Weekly readings and active participation are essential
- Explore the principal design concepts of domain-specific
to connect course concepts to real#world cyber defense. Prerequisite:
accelerators, contrast them to traditional CPU architectures,
None; please note, this is not a programming-focused course; as such,
this course is appropriate for both CS and non-CS graduate students.

Course Learning Outcomes - 3. Students will be able to analyze and evaluate research articles in
Cyber Physical Systems security and privacy protection.
- Define intelligence, describe the intelligence cycle, and identify the
- 4. Students will be able to design usable solutions for addressing
various intelligence disciplines.
security and privacy problems in representative Cyber Physical
- Explain how Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) groups and non-state Systems.
actors operate in cyberspace.
- Analyze cyber attacks and recognize key historical campaigns. CSCI588. INTRODUCTION TO HUMAN FACTORS IN SECURITY AND
- Apply principles of intelligence analysis and understand the PRIVACY. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
psychology behind analytical decision-making. As Bruce Schneier remarks, "the more secure you make something, the
less secure it becomes," meaning that we cannot rely on purely technical
- Evaluate the limitations and challenges inherent in intelligence
solutions for security. We also need to consider the “human factors” that
collection and interpretation.
affect the security of our systems. Human factors that affect security
- Write a policy memo and develop a detailed actor or group profile,
might be how everyday users decide which security advice to (not) follow,
and effectively present the profile in a 30-minute verbal briefing to the
why developers still introduce vulnerabilities into their code, and how
class.
security needs may differ for specialized populations. This course is
- Identify career paths in cybersecurity and demonstrate strategies for centered around understanding the human factors that affect security and
professional networking within the field. privacy. We will discuss research focusing on a variety of important topics
at the intersection of human factors and computer security and privacy
CSCI585. INFORMATION SECURITY PRIVACY. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
and build skills to evaluate and conduct research in this field. The course
This course provides an introduction to the principles and best practices
is suitable for students interested in learning about security and privacy
in information security and privacy. Lectures will include basic concepts of
and human factors.
information security and privacy, fundamental security design principles,
Course Learning Outcomes
major topics in security and privacy, essential knowledge and skills,
risk assessment and mitigation, policy development, and so on. In the - Read, identify, and discuss important topics in human factors in
classroom, students will also present and discuss a list of recent or security and privacy.
classic research papers corresponding to the major topics in security - Design and conduct empirical research in human factors in security
and privacy. Outside of the classroom, students will work on homework and privacy.
assignments, security lab exercises, quizzes, research paper summaries,
- Critically evaluate research in human factors in security and privacy.
and a course project. Prerequisite: (CSCI262 or CSCI220) and CSCI341.
- Think critically about the human impact of security and privacy.
Course Learning Outcomes
- Explain the fundamental security and privacy protection principles, CSCI597. SUMMER PROGRAMS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
techniques, and practices. CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
- Describe risk mitigation, legal requirements, and ethical (I, II, S) Pilot course or special topics course. Topics chosen from special
considerations in cybersecurity. interests of instructor(s) and student(s). Usually the course is offered only
- Analyze real-world security and privacy problems in modern once, but no more than twice for the same course content. Prerequisite:
computing environments. none. Variable credit: 0 to 6 credit hours. Repeatable for credit under
different titles.
- Practice security and privacy protection tools and techniques.
- Critique existing security and privacy protection techniques or CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
studies. CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
CSCI587. CYBER PHYSICAL SYSTEMS SECURITY. 3.0 Semester
Hrs. CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
(II) This course aims to build a solid foundation for students to identify,
CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 1-6 Semester Hr.
analyze, and evaluate real-world security and privacy problems in Cyber
Physical Systems, as well as to design and develop secure and usable CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 1-6 Semester Hr.
solutions for addressing these problems. It focuses on the important CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 1-6 Semester Hr.
security and privacy research topics in representative Cyber Physical
CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
Systems such as wireless sensor networks, smart grids, autonomous
automotive systems, and robotic systems. It also includes the discussion CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
of the protection of the nation's critical infrastructures such as Food, CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Health, Water, Energy, Finance, Communication, Manufacturing,
CSCI598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Government, and Transportation. The format of the course includes
introductory discussions, research paper reading, summaries, and CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
discussions, as well as research projects. 3 hours lecture; 3 semester (I, II, S) Individual research or special problem projects supervised by a
hours. faculty member, also, when a student and instructor agree on a subject
Course Learning Outcomes matter, content, and credit hours. Prerequisite: “Independent Study” form
must be completed and submitted to the Registrar. Variable credit: 0.5
- 1. Students will be able to explain the essential security and privacy to 6 credit hours. Repeatable for credit under different topics/experience
protection requirements in representative Cyber Physical Systems. and maximums vary by department. Contact the Department for credit
- 2. Students will be able to analyze security and privacy problems in limits toward the degree.
representative Cyber Physical Systems.

14 Computer Science
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr. Associate Professors
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr. Mehmet Belviranli
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Hua Wang
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Bo Wu
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr. Thomas Williams
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Dejun Yang
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Chuan Yue
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Assistant Professors
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr. Dong Chen
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Neil Dantam
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
Gabriel Fierro
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
CSCI599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr. C. Estelle Smith
CSCI691. GRADUATE SEMINAR. 1.0 Semester Hr. Teaching Professors
Presentation of latest research results by guest lecturers, staff, and
advanced students. Prerequisite: none. 1 hour seminar; 1 semester hour. Tolga Can
Repeatable for credit to a maximum of 12 hours.
Vibhuti Dave
CSCI698. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-6 Semester Hr.
(I, II, S) Pilot course or special topics course. Topics chosen from special Jeffrey Paone
interests of instructor(s) and student(s). Usually the course is offered only
Christopher Painter-Wakefield
once, but no more than twice for the same course content. Prerequisite:
none. Variable credit: 0 to 6 credit hours. Repeatable for credit under Teaching Associate Professors
different titles.
Wendy Fisher, Assistant Department Head
CSCI699. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
(I, II, S) Individual research or special problem projects supervised by a Kathleen Kelly
faculty member, also, when a student and instructor agree on a subject
matter, content, and credit hours. Prerequisite: “Independent Study” form Robert Thompson
must be completed and submitted to the Registrar. Variable credit: 0.5
Teaching Assistant Professors
to 6 credit hours. Repeatable for credit under different topics/experience
and maximums vary by department. Contact the Department for credit
Amelia Read
limits toward the degree.
CSCI700. MASTERS PROJECT CREDITS. 1-6 Semester Hr. Zibo Wang
(I, II, S) Project credit hours required for completion of the non-thesis
Professors of Practice
Master of Science degree in Computer Science (Project Option). Project
under the direct supervision of a faculty advisor. Credit is not transferable Mark Baldwin
to any 400, 500, or 600 level courses. Repeatable for credit.
Phil Romig
CSCI707. GRADUATE THESIS / DISSERTATION RESEARCH CREDIT.
1-15 Semester Hr. Visiting Teaching Associate Professor
(I, II, S) GRADUATE THESIS/DISSERTATION RESEARCH CREDIT
Research credit hours required for completion of a Masters-level thesis Keith Hellman
or Doctoral dissertation. Research must be carried out under the direct
Emeriti Professors
supervision of the student's faculty advisor. Variable class and semester
hours. Repeatable for credit. Tracy Camp , Emeritus Professor
Professor and Department Head William Hoff, Emeritus Associate Professor
Iris Bahar Cyndi Rader, Emeritus Teaching Professor
Professors
Qi Han
Dinesh Mehta