SOURCE: documents/graduategradingsystem.pdf
============================================================

Graduate Grading The student and the instructor should discuss the terms for the
incomplete before the end of the term. The instructor may grant up to one
System year, but the time limit may be less, to complete outstanding coursework.
Any outstanding grade of INC will be converted to an F grade if it has not
been updated by the instructor after one year. In the event that an INC
grade remains on the record at the completion of the degree, the INC will
Grades
be converted to an F and included in the final GPA.
When a student registers for a graduate (500- and 600-level ) course,
Satisfactory Progress Grades
one of the following grades will appear on the academic record. Grades
are based on the level of performance and represent the extent of the A graduate student may receive a grade of Satisfactory Progress (PRG)
student's demonstrated mastery of the material listed in the course in any one of three possible situations:
outline and achievement of the stated course objectives. These are
Mines' grade symbols and their qualitative interpretations: 1. As a passing grade given in a course that is graded pass-fail.
2. As a grade for a course extending more than one semester.
Symbol Interpretation
3. As a grade indicating successful completion of research credit hours.
A Acceptable for Graduate Credit
A- Acceptable for Graduate Credit When applied to pass-fail courses, the Satisfactory Progress (PRG)
grade indicates successful completion of the requirements of the course.
B+ Acceptable for Graduate Credit
A grade of Unsatisfactory Progress (PRU) as applied to pass-fail courses
B Acceptable for Graduate Credit
indicates the student failed to meet the requirements for successful
B- May be Acceptable for Graduate Credit
completion of the course. The PRG and PRU grades have no point value
C+ May be Acceptable for Graduate Credit toward a student's GPA. As described in the Unsatisfactory Academic
C May be Acceptable for Graduate Credit Performance portion of this catalog, receipt of a PRU grade indicates
C- May be Acceptable for Graduate Credit unsatisfactory progress toward degree completion and will trigger
academic disciplinary proceedings.
D+ Not Acceptable for Graduate Credit
D Not Acceptable for Graduate Credit For students completing independent study or seminar courses extending
D- Not Acceptable for Graduate Credit over multiple terms, the progress grade has no point value. In such
F Failed cases, the student receives a grade of PRG (progress). For multiterm
independent study courses, upon completion of course requirements, a
S Satisfactory (C- or better, used as a mid-term
final letter grade is assigned in the last term in which the student enrolled
grade)
in the course. In seminar courses in which continuous enrollment is
U Unsatisfactory (below C-, used as a mid-term
required by the degree program, the PRG grade remains on all previous
grade)
terms, with the option of either assigning a PRG grade or a final letter
INC Incomplete grade the last term of attendance.
PRG Satisfactory Progress
When applied to research credits, the Satisfactory Progress (PRG)
PRU Unsatisfactory Progress
grade also has no point value toward a student's GPA, but indicates
Graduate students enrolled in undergraduate-level courses (400-level satisfactory progress toward completion of the research component
and below) are graded using the undergraduate grading system and of a student's thesis-based degree program. Alternatively, a grade of
coursework will be recorded on the undergraduate transcript. PRU, Unsatisfactory Progress, may be given, and if given, indicates
that a student has not made satisfactory progress toward the research
In addition to these performance symbols, the following is a list of component of a thesis-based degree program. In this case, receipt
additional registration symbols that may appear on a Mines transcript: of a grade of PRU may trigger academic disciplinary proceedings as
described in the Unsatisfactory Academic Performance portion of this
Symbol Interpretation catalog.
WI Involuntarily Withdrawn
Unless faculty submit the Change of Grade forms to the registrar, grades
W Withdrew, No Penalty
of PRU delivered for unsatisfactory research performance are not
T Transfer Credit
changed to PRG upon the successful completion of a student's degree
NC Not for Credit program.
Z Grade not yet Submitted
NC Grade
Incomplete Grade
For special reasons and with the instructor's permission, a student may
An Incomplete INC is a temporary grade which may be given at the register in a course for no credit (NC). To have the grade NC appear
instructor’s discretion to a student when illness, necessary absence, on the transcript, the student must enroll at registration time as an
or other reasons beyond the control of the student prevent completion NC student in the course and comply with all conditions stipulated by
of course requirements by the end of the academic term. An INC the course instructor. If a student registered as NC fails to satisfy all
is restricted to cases in which the student satisfactorily completed conditions, no record of this registration in the course will be made.
a significant amount of the coursework, including attendance and
participation.

2 Graduate Grading System
Quality Hours and Quality Points If a course completed during the Fall 2023 term or after (1) is a repeat of
a course completed in a previous term in which the student received a
For graduation, a student must successfully complete a certain number grade lower than a B, (2) was not already used for an awarded degree,
of required credits and must maintain grades at a satisfactory level. and (3) is not repeatable for credit, the higher grade and credits earned
Numerical values assigned to each letter grade are given in the table will count toward the student's grade-point average and the student's
below: degree requirements. The repeated course must be an exact match to
the previous course completed (subject and number). A course that falls
Grade Numerical Value
under this repeat policy may only be retaken once for the purpose of
A 4.000 improving a student’s grade point average.
A- 3.700
Courses from other institutions transferred to Colorado School of Mines
B+ 3.300
are not counted in any grade-point average and cannot be used under
B 3.000
this repeat policy.
B- 2.700
All occurrences of every course taken at Colorado School of Mines will
C+ 2.300
appear on the official transcript along with the associated grade.
C 2.000
C- 1.700 Course and Research Grades
D+ 1.300
All candidates for graduate degrees must maintain a cumulative grade-
D 1.000
point average of at least 3.0 in all courses taken at Mines and listed on
D- 0.700
the graduate transcript. This includes both graduate and undergraduate
F 0.000 courses. Any grade lower than C- is not acceptable for credit toward
graduate degree requirements.
The number of quality points earned in any course is the number of credit
hours assigned to that course multiplied by the numerical value of the For research credits, students receive either an “Satisfactory Progress”
grade received. The quality (or grade-point average) hours earned are or an “Unsatisfactory Progress” grade based on their faculty advisor’s
the number of credit hours in which grades are awarded. To compute a evaluation of their work. Research grades do not enter into the
grade-point average, the number of cumulative quality hours is divided calculation of the student’s grade-point average.
into the cumulative quality points earned. Grades of W, WI, INC, PRG,
PRU, or NC are not counted in quality hours. Students who fail to maintain a grade-point average of at least 3.0, or
who receive an Unsatisfactory Progress research grade are placed
Credit Hours on academic probation by the graduate dean and may be subject to
dismissal as defined by the Unsatisfactory Academic Performance
The number of times a class meets during a week (for lecture, recitation, section of this catalog.
or laboratory) determines the number of credit hours assigned to that
course. Class sessions are normally 50 minutes long and represent Grade Changes
one hour of credit for each hour meeting. A minimum of three hours of
laboratory work per week is equivalent to one hour of credit. For the After the completion of final grading for a term, only corrections to errors
average student, each hour of lecture and recitation requires at least two in grading may be processed and they must be for grade improvements
hours of preparation. only. Corrections to errors in grading for all students will be accepted
one year from the original grade entry. With the exception of punitive
Grade-Point Averages disciplinary actions, diminution of a grade is not allowed without approval
of the provost.
Grade-point averages (GPAs) shall be specified, recorded, reported, and
used to three figures following the decimal point for any and all purposes Grade Appeal Process
to which said averages may apply.
Mines faculty have the responsibility and sole authority for assigning
All graduate degree programs require students to have a minimum grades. As instructors, this responsibility includes clearly stating the
overall grade point average of 3.0 in order to be eligible to receive the instructional objectives of a course, defining how grades will be assigned
degree. All courses, including graduate courses taken as a non-degree in a way that is consistent with these objectives, and then assigning
graduate student and graduate-level courses taken at Colorado School grades. It is the student’s responsibility to understand the grading criteria
of Mines after first enrolling in a graduate degree program are included and then maintain the standards of academic performance established
in the calculation of the overall graduate grade-point average. Grades for for each course in which he or she is enrolled.
courses applied to a degree program as transfer credit are not included
in any grade-point average calculation. Specifics in calculating the overall If a student believes he or she has been unfairly graded, the student may
GPA, and other grade-point averages, are defined below. appeal this decision first to the instructor of the course, and if the appeal
is denied, to the Academic Standards Committee of the Faculty Senate.
Overall Grade-Point Average The Academic Standards Committee is the faculty body authorized
to review and modify course grades in appropriate circumstances.
The overall graduate level grade-point average includes all attempts at Any decision made by the Academic Standards Committee is final. In
courses taken at Colorado School of Mines while a graduate student, evaluating a grade appeal, the Academic Standards Committee will
whether degree seeking or non-degree, with the exception of courses place the burden of proof on the student. For a grade to be revised by
that fall under the repeat policy described below. the Academic Standards Committee, the student must demonstrate that

the grading decision was unfair by documenting that one or more of the
following conditions applied:
1. The grading decision was based on something other than course
performance, unless the grade was a result of penalty for academic
dishonesty.
2. The grading decision was based on standards that were
unreasonably different from those applied to other students in the
same section of that course.
3. The grading decision was based on standards that differed
substantially and unreasonably from those previously articulated by
the instructor.
To appeal a grade, the student should proceed as follows:
1. The student should prepare an appeal of the grade received in the
course. This appeal must define the basis for the appeal and must
present all relevant evidence supporting the student’s case.
2. After preparing the appeal, the student should deliver this appeal to
the course instructor and attempt to resolve the issue directly with the
instructor. Written grade appeals must be delivered to the instructor
no later than 10 business days after the start of the regular (fall or
spring) semester immediately following the semester in which the
contested grade was received. In the event that the course instructor
is unavailable because of leave, illness, sabbatical, retirement, or
resignation from the university, the course coordinator (first) or the
department head/program director (second) shall represent the
instructor.
3. If after discussion with the instructor, the student is still dissatisfied,
he or she can proceed with the appeal by emailing a copy of the
appeal and a copy of a summary of the instructor/student meetings
held in connection with the previous step to the Academic Standards
Committee. All information must be submitted to the committee
no later than 25 business days after the start of the semester
immediately following the semester in which the contested grade was
received.
4. On the basis of all information deemed pertinent to the grade appeal,
the Academic Standards Committee will determine whether the grade
should be revised. The decision rendered will be either:
a. the original grading decision is upheld, or
b. sufficient evidence exists to indicate a grade has been assigned
unfairly.
In the latter case, the Academic Standards Committee will assign the
student a new grade for the course. The committee’s decision is final.
The decision and supporting documentation will be delivered to the
Faculty Senate, the office of the executive vice president for Academic
Affairs, the student, the instructor, and the instructor’s department head/
program director no later than 25 business days following the Faculty
Senate’s receipt of the grade appeal.
The schedule, but not the process, outlined above may be modified upon
mutual agreement of the student, the course instructor, and the Academic
Standards Committee.