SOURCE: documents/policiesandprocedures.pdf
============================================================

Policies and Procedures unauthorized assistance in the performance of academic coursework.
I will conduct myself in an ethical manner in my use of the library,
computing center, and all other school facilities and resources. By
Standards, Codes of Conduct practicing these principles, I will strive to uphold the principles of integrity
and academic excellence at Mines. I will not participate in or tolerate any
Students can access campus rules and regulations, including the student form of discrimination or mistreatment of another individual.
code of conduct, alcohol policy, public safety and parking policies, the
Policy on Academic Integrity/Misconduct
distribution of literature and free speech policy, and a variety of others
by visiting the school's policy website. We encourage all students to 1.0 ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
review the website and expect that students know and understand the
campus policies, rules and regulations as well as their rights as a student. Colorado School of Mines (Mines) affirms the principle that all individuals
Questions and comments regarding the above-mentioned policies can be associated with the Mines academic community have a responsibility
directed to the Dean of Students located in the Student Life Office in the for establishing, maintaining, and fostering an understanding and
Ben Parker Student Center. appreciation for academic integrity. In broad terms, this implies protecting
the environment of mutual trust within which scholarly exchange occurs,
For emphasis, the following policies are included or identified in this supporting the ability of the faculty to fairly and effectively evaluate every
section: student’s academic achievements, and giving credence to the university’s
educational mission, its scholarly objectives, and the substance of the
- Student Honor Code
degrees it awards. The protection of academic integrity requires there to
- Policy on Academic Integrity/Misconduct be clear and consistent standards, as well as confrontation and sanctions
when individuals violate those standards. Colorado School of Mines
- Policy Prohibiting Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination, and Retaliation desires an environment free of any and all forms of academic misconduct
and expects students to act with integrity at all times.
- Alcohol and Other Drugs Education and Prevention Policy
2.0 POLICY ON ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT
- Electronic Communications (Email) Policy
Student academic misconduct arises when a student violates the
- Student Complaint Process
principle of academic integrity and/or when a student aids and abets in
the commission of academic misconduct. Academic misconduct may
- Access to Student Records
also occur when a student is negligent in their reasonable responsibilities
- Posthumous Degree Awards as a student to be aware of or proactively confirm or clarify appropriate
conduct with coursework, assignments or exams, and subsequently
- Equal Opportunity, Equal Access, and Affirmative Action proceeds in a manner befitting of misconduct. Such behavior erodes
mutual trust, distorts the fair evaluation of academic achievements,
- Office of Institutional Equity & Title IX
violates the ethical code of behavior upon which education and
scholarship rest, and undermines the credibility of the university.
- SpeakUP@Mines
Because of the serious institutional and individual ramifications, student
Please note: Any policy or procedure updates during the term will be misconduct arising from violations of academic integrity is not tolerated
reflected in the Mines Policy Library and those versions shall control. at Mines. If a student is found to have engaged in such misconduct
sanctions such as change of a grade, loss of institutional privileges, or
Student Honor Code
academic suspension or dismissal may be imposed.
1.0 PREAMBLE
The Dean of Students Office administers this faculty-approved policy.
Within the Dean of Students Office, two administrators will facilitate
The students of Colorado School of Mines have adopted the following
the separate aspects of the policy, including the initial resolution and
Student Honor Code in order to establish a high standard of student
appeal process, in order to remain impartial with respect to potential
behavior at Mines. The code may only be amended through a student
appeals while simultaneously providing procedural guidance to faculty
referendum supported by a majority vote of the Mines student body.
and students.
Mines students shall be involved in the enforcement of the code through
their participation in the Student Conduct Appeals Board.
Forms of Misconduct. As a guide, some of the more common forms of
academic misconduct are noted below. This list is not intended to be all-
2.0 CODE
inclusive; rather, the list is illustrative of practices the Mines faculty have
Mines students believe it is our responsibility to promote and maintain deemed inappropriate.
high ethical standards in order to ensure our safety, welfare, and
1. Dishonest Conduct – general conduct unbecoming a scholar.
enjoyment of a successful learning environment. Each of us, under
Examples include issuing misleading statements; withholding
this code, shall assume responsibility for our behavior in the area of
pertinent information; submitting previously graded work as new and/
academic integrity. As a Mines student, I am expected to adhere to
or original without acknowledgment and permission; not fulfilling,
the highest standards of academic excellence and personal integrity
in a timely fashion, previously agreed to projects or activities; and
regarding my schoolwork, exams, academic projects, and research
verifying as true things that are known to the student not to be true or
endeavors. I will act honestly, responsibly, and above all, with honor
verifiable.
and integrity in all aspects of my academic endeavors at Mines. I will
not misrepresent the work of others as my own, nor will I give or receive

2 Policies and Procedures
2. Plagiarism – presenting the work of another as one’s own. may result in academic misconduct investigations/sanctions. Viewing,
This is usually accomplished through the failure to acknowledge uploading, and downloading material is not tolerated when the course
the borrowing of ideas, data, or the words of others. Examples material was illegally or improperly uploaded. Contact your faculty
include submitting as one’s own work the work of another member to proactively seek permission or clarity.
student, a ghost writer, or a commercial writing service; quoting,
either directly or paraphrased, a source without appropriate Allegations of misconduct brought forward by faculty must fall within with
acknowledgment; and using figures, charts, graphs, or facts without the aforementioned seven examples of common misconduct and/or be
appropriate acknowledgment. Inadvertent or unintentional misuse or specifically and explicitly addressed in the published course materials.
appropriation of another’s work is nevertheless plagiarism.
3.0 PROCEDURES FOR ADDRESSING ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT
3. Falsification/Fabrication – inventing or altering information.
Examples include inventing or manipulating data or research Faculty members and thesis committees have discretion to address and
procedures to report, suggest, or imply that particular results were resolve misconduct matters in a manner that is commensurate with the
achieved from procedures when such procedures were not actually infraction and consistent with the values of the Institution. This includes
undertaken or when such results were not actually supported by imposition of appropriate academic sanctions for students involved in
the pertinent data; false citation of source materials; reporting false academic misconduct. However, in order to maintain consistency when
information about practical, laboratory, or clinical experiences; handling such issues, if a member of the Mines’ community has grounds
falsifying attendance or participation; submitting false excuses for for suspecting that a student or students have engaged in academic
absence, tardiness, or missed deadlines; and altering previously misconduct, they have an obligation to act on this suspicion by utilizing
submitted examinations. the following procedure:
4. Tampering – interfering with, forging, altering, or attempting to
3.1 Notify the Dean of Students Office. Upon suspicion of
alter university records, grades, assignments, or other documents
misconduct, it is the faculty member’s responsibility to email the
without authorization. Examples include using a computer- or false-
Dean of Students Office (deanofstudents@mines.edu). The Dean
written document to change a recorded grade; altering, deleting,
of Students Office will provide procedural guidance to the faculty
or manufacturing any academic record; and gaining unauthorized
member, including pre-written email templates which the faculty
access to a university record by any means.
may use.
5. Cheating – using or attempting to use unauthorized materials
or aid with the intent of demonstrating academic performance Student names may be disclosed at this time, but are not
through fraudulent means. Examples include copying from another necessary. Prepared sample templates and procedural guidance
student’s paper or receiving unauthorized assistance on a homework will consider and include appropriate accessibility language to
assignment, quiz, test, or examination; using books, notes, or ensure an accessible process for students and faculty, alike.
other devices such as calculators, PDAs, and cell phones, unless
explicitly authorized; acquiring without authorization a copy of the 3.2 Notify and Meet with Student(s). Following correspondence
examination before the scheduled examination; and copying reports, with the Dean of Students Office, the faculty member or thesis
laboratory work, or computer files from other students. Authorized committee representative must meet with and inform the student(s)
materials are those generally regarded as being appropriate in an of the suspicions/allegations and potential charge of academic
academic setting, unless specific exceptions have been articulated by misconduct within 10 business days of suspecting misconduct.
the instructor.
This meeting allows the student the opportunity to give their
6. Impeding – negatively impacting the ability of other students to
perspective or explanation prior to any decision being made as to
successfully complete course or degree requirements. Examples
whether or not misconduct occurred. The student should be aware
include removing pages from books and removing materials that
of the subject of the meeting and the alleged misconduct at the time
are placed on reserve in the library for general use; failing to
of scheduling. The meeting also allows the faculty member to have
provide team members necessary materials or assistance; and,
a conversation with the student(s) in an effort to educate them on
knowingly disseminating false information about the nature of a test
appropriate conduct.
or examination.
7. Sharing Work – giving or attempting to give unauthorized materials Following this meeting (at end of meeting or afterward and
or aid to another student. Examples include allowing another within the prescribed timeline), the faculty member should inform
student to copy your work; giving unauthorized assistance on the student of their decision as to whether or not misconduct
a homework assignment, quiz, test, or examination; providing, occurred. In the instance where the faculty member(s) believe
without authorization, copies of examinations before the scheduled misconduct occurred, the student should be explicitly informed of
examination; posting work on a website for others to see; and sharing the nature of the misconduct (e.g., cheating, plagiarism, etc.).
reports, laboratory work or computer files with other students.
The meeting can be done via telephone if needed, but a face-to-
Additionally, individual courses may specify appropriate and/or face meeting between the faculty member and student is preferred.
inappropriate scholastic conduct as long as course-specific guidance It is recommended, but not required, that the faculty invite a neutral,
is not in conflict with this senior university misconduct policy and is well silent colleague to the meeting as an impartial witness. If the
known by way of advanced written distribution to all students enrolled student or faculty member is unable to meet because of pre-existing
(e.g., published course syllabus). Students are encouraged to seek prior commitments or unforeseen priorities, the ten-day timeline may be
authorization and permission to use online homework or tutoring sites temporarily suspended with mutual written agreement of faculty
including, but not limited to, CHEGG. The Academic Misconduct Policy and student(s), and written approval by the Dean of Students Office
prohibits unauthorized help or assistance. Unauthorized use of CHEGG prior to expiration of the deadline.
or similar sites to the benefit of studying, homework, or examinations

3.3. Actions Taken; Circumstances. The circumstances of the academic misconduct in connection with a graduate thesis
academic misconduct dictate the process to be followed: project), if after talking with the student, faculty member(s)
finds the student is responsible for misconduct the faculty
3.3.1 Regular Coursework. In the case of an allegation of should:
academic misconduct associated with regular coursework
(including exams), if after talking with the student, the faculty - Report the violation using this form (or via
member finds the student is responsible for academic deanofstudents@mines.edu) within five business
misconduct the faculty member should: days of meeting with the student (as outlined above
– see 3.1). The reporting form will collect information
- Report the violation via this form (or via on the student(s), violation(s), and other necessary
deanofstudents@mines.edu) within five business course information. (e.g. cheating, plagiarism,
days of meeting with the student (as outlined above etc.).The Dean of Students Office will communicate
– see 3.1). The reporting form will collect necessary the resolution in writing to the student, the faculty
information on the student(s), violation(s), and member(s), appropriate members of Academic
course details. Report of a violation should detail the Affairs, the Office of Graduate Studies (if applicable),
nature of the misconduct (e.g., cheating, plagiarism, the student’s advisor, and any additional appropriate
etc.). A submitted form will automatically inform the parties including Athletics, course coordinators, or
Dean of Students Office. the Registrar’s Office. The Dean of Students will
keep official records on all students with academic
- The Dean of Students Office will communicate
misconduct violations.
the resolution in writing to the student, the faculty
member(s), appropriate members of Academic - Assign an outcome to the activity that constitutes
Affairs, the Office of Graduate Studies (if applicable), failure. If appropriate, the student’s advisor may also
the student’s advisor, and any additional appropriate assign a grade of PRU (unsatisfactory progress) for
parties including Athletics, course coordinators, research credits in which the student is enrolled.
or the Registrar’s Office. The Dean of Students Regular institutional procedures resulting from
will keep official records on all students with either of these outcomes are then followed.
academic misconduct violations. Disciplinary action/ Faculty members may impose a lesser penalty if
sanctioning for misconduct with regular coursework: the circumstances warrant, however, the typical
sanction is failure.
- First Offense: Zero credit (or no points) on
the assignment/exam/effort. Educational 3.3.3 Research Activities. In the case of an allegation of
sanctioning as prescribed and facilitated by academic misconduct associated with research activities,
the Dean of Students Office. Notation of first investigation and resolution of the misconduct is governed
offense in disciplinary record. by the institution’s Research Integrity Policy. The Research
- Failure to comply with educational Integrity Policy is available as section 10.3 of the Faculty
sanctioning expectations and timeline Handbook. If, after talking with the student, the faculty
will result in immediate acceleration of member feels the student is responsible for misconduct of this
offense to sanctioning prescribed with type, the faculty member should proceed as indicted in the
second offense (F in course and inability Research Integrity Policy. If appropriate, the student’s advisor
to withdraw). Additionally, the student’s may also assign a grade of PRU for research credits in which
disciplinary standing will also be upgraded the student is enrolled. Regular institutional procedures
to second offense. resulting from this grade assignment are then followed.
- With first offense, faculty may choose to 3.4 Student Reporting. Students who suspect other students of
provide a restorative credit assignment or academic misconduct should report the matter to the appropriate
make-up quiz or exam wherein students faculty member, the appropriate department head/program director,
can work to recover credit penalized as the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, the Dean of Graduate Studies,
part of misconduct sanctioning. or the Dean of Students. The information is then provided to the
- Second Offense: F in the course and inability faculty member concerned.
to withdraw. Notation of second offense in
disciplinary record. 4.0 STUDENT ACADEMIC MISCONDUCT APPEAL PROCESS
- Third or Greater Offense: F in the course.
4.1 Purpose
Suspension from school for one-year minimum
(calendar year). “Suspension as a result of A student may appeal a decision within certain timelines and
Academic Misconduct” permanently noted under specific criteria. For all charges of academic misconduct,
on university transcript. Return to Mines not upon notification of a finding of academic misconduct and the
guaranteed, and only possible by way of Mines associated penalties, the student may appeal the decision of the
Readmissions Committee. faculty member.
3.3.2 Activities Not Part of Regular Coursework. In the An appeal is not a second hearing of the case, but rather it is a
case of an allegation of academic misconduct associated review of the procedures followed and information presented to
with activities not a part of regular coursework (e.g., an determine if the process provided was in accordance with the policy
allegation of cheating on a comprehensive examination or

4 Policies and Procedures
or if the decision was unsupported by the evidence, as set forth complete. After review of the request, the Dean of Students
below. will take one of the following actions:
This appeal process governs all requests for appeal related to a. Accept the Appeal Request – See section 4.3.2
violations of the Academic Integrity/Misconduct Policy. Grade below
appeals, residency appeals, student conduct appeals, and appeals b. Deny the Appeal Request – The Dean of Students
related to research misconduct are handled through separate will notify the student that the appeal has been
processes. Please see the Mines Policy webpage for more denied and the basis for the denial. An appeal
information on those processes. that does not set forth sufficient grounds for appeal
(as described in section 2.0 above) will be denied.
4.2 Grounds for Appeal
In such cases, the original decision of the faculty
member is considered binding upon all involved
An appeal request will be considered only if it includes the specific
grounds for an appeal and the rationale that support the selected and the matter will be considered closed unless
grounds. The three items listed below are the only acceptable the student can provide evidence that the Dean of
grounds for an appeal: Students made an arbitrary decision without fully
considering the information presented. If that is
- Due Process. To determine whether the meeting with the the case, the student requesting the appeal must
faculty member and the process followed was conducted notify the associate vice president of Student Life
fairly and in conformity with the prescribed procedures. in writing within two business days and request
Any procedural errors must have been so substantial as that the appeal be reviewed again by the associate
to effectively deny the student a reasonable opportunity to vice president of Student Life. The associate vice
prepare and present information about an alleged policy president of Student Life will review the request
violation. The student should be able to show that there within two business days. The associate vice
would have been a different outcome if the procedural president of Student Life will either accept the
error had not occurred. Minor deviations that do not appeal request (see section 3.2) or deny the appeal
materially affect the outcome are not a basis for sustaining request. If the associate vice president of Student
an appeal. Life denies the appeal request, the decision is final
- New Information. To consider information or other and considered binding upon all involved.
relevant facts sufficient to alter a decision because such
4.3.2 Accepted Appeal. Once the appeal request has been
information was not known by the student at the time of
accepted by the Dean of Students (or associate vice president
the original conduct meeting with the faculty member.
of Student Life), the Dean of Students will proceed as follows:
- Unsupported Decision. To determine whether the
decision reached by the faculty member was supported a. Notify the student and the faculty member that
using the preponderance of evidence standard to the appeal has been accepted and the appeal will
establish that a violation of the policy occurred. This proceed.
ground for appeal requires the student to show that no b. Schedule a date and time for the appeal meeting to
reasonable person could have determined that the student be held.
was responsible or could have imposed the sanctioned
c. Provide the student and faculty member with an
issued based on the available evidence.
overview of the appeal process and allow them
4.3 Submitting an Appeal Request to submit any additional information related to the
academic misconduct charge that they would like to
Decisions reached by a faculty member may be appealed by the be included in the appeal meeting.
student. A student may file an appeal by completing a Student d. Forward the appeal and all supporting documents to
Conduct Appeal form and submitting it to the Dean of Students the participating members of the Student Conduct
Office by the date stated on the original decision letter (typically Appeals Board.
seven business days). This form is available online at https://
www.mines.edu/policy-library/student/ and in person at the Student 4.4 Student Conduct Appeals Board
Life Office. It is the student’s obligation to complete the form in
The Student Conduct Appeals Board (“Board”) consists of 16
its entirety and provide any and all materials that they wish to
members of the campus community, including six students, six
have considered at the time of the appeal submission. Incomplete
faculty, and four staff, plus the Dean of Students as the chair. A
form, late submissions, or revised requests will not be accepted.
minimum of three Board members (including one student and one
If the student’s appeal request is not received by the designated
faculty member) are required for all appeal meetings.
deadline, the decision of the faculty member is final and no further
appeal will be permitted.
Upon acceptance of an appeal, the list of the members of the
Student Conduct Appeals Board will be provided to the student
4.3.1 Appeal Request Review. Once an appeal request is
and the faculty member. Both the student and the faculty member
received, it is forwarded to the Dean of Students. Within five
may each request the removal of one of the Board members’
business days, the Dean of Students will review the request to
from participating in the appeal meeting. Upon receipt of such
determine if the acceptable grounds for an appeal have been
requests, the Dean of Students will remove the potential member
met, if the appeal has been timely filed, and if the request is
from participating.

Once an appeal request is accepted and the appeal meeting the appeal should be reviewed and considered which
scheduled, non-excluded Board members will be contacted could include increasing or decreasing the sanctions
and invited to participate at the appeal meeting. Appeals Board imposed or addressing additional issues that arose
members have an affirmative obligation to excuse themselves if through the appeal process. Recommendations for
they have a conflict of interest. The Dean of Students will provide appropriate sanctions should be made by the Student
participating Board members with all pertinent information regarding Appeals Committee to the Office of Academic Affairs. The
the incident and appeal, including but not limited to the student’s additional review and consideration will be conducted by
education records, the appeal request, and other information the Dean of Undergraduate Studies or Dean of Graduate
submitted by the student and the faculty member. Studies, depending on the academic standing of the
student requesting the appeal. The Office of Academic
4.5 Appeal Meeting Affairs staff member will make a final decision that will be
communicated to the student within 10 business days.
The student and the faculty member will meet with the participating
Student Conduct Appeals Board members during the appeal The decision made will be communicated to the student and faculty
meeting. Both the student and the faculty member will be allowed member within 24 hours of the conclusion of the appeal meeting.
to provide a brief statement and then answer questions from the The decision issued by the Student Conduct Appeals Board or
Appeals Board members. The student and faculty member will the Office of Academic Affairs (in matters that are forwarded for
not be permitted to question one another. All questioning will be further consideration) is final and shall be considered binding upon
done by the Board members. The Board members may, at their all involved, to which no additional appeals are permitted.
discretion, meet with any appropriate witnesses during the meeting.
After all questioning has occurred, the student and faculty member For the most up-to-date version of this procedure and appeal request
will be excused. forms, please see the student section of the policy website.
4.5.1 Recordings. If requested by the student or faculty POLICY PROHIBITING UNLAWFUL
member, one verbatim record, such as a recording, will be DISCRIMINATION
made. This recording shall be the property of Mines. If such
a recording is made, a student wishing to obtain a copy of the 1.0. BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE
recording must submit a request to the Dean of Students. This
Colorado School of Mines (“Mines”) is committed to inclusivity and access
may be done via mail, email, or in person. Once the request
for all persons and strives to create learning and workplace environments
has been received, the Dean of Students will provide both
that exclude all forms of unlawful discrimination, harassment, and
parties with a copy of the recording.
retaliation. Mines’ commitment to nondiscrimination, affirmative action,
4.5.2 Advisor. The appeal meeting is an internal university equal opportunity, and equal access is reflected in the administration of
judicial matter. Students are allowed to have one individual its policies, procedures, programs, and activities, as well as its efforts to
advisor (parent, lawyer, friend etc.) in the room during the achieve a diverse student body and workforce.
appeal meeting. The advisor is not allowed to speak on the
As part of this commitment, the Board of Trustees of Colorado School
student’s behalf or address the committee during the appeal
of Mines promulgates this policy pursuant to the authority conferred by
meeting. He/she is only allowed to hear the information
§23-41-104(1), C.R.S., and in accordance with applicable federal and
being provided to the committee, confer with the student, and
Colorado civil rights laws.
offer the student advice. This individual is not permitted to
represent the student or speak on the student’s behalf during
2.0 POLICY STATEMENT
the appeal meeting.
Mines prohibits discrimination and harassment on the basis of age,
4.6 Pending Action
ancestry, creed, marital status, race, color, ethnicity, religion, national
origin, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, disability, sexual
Throughout the entire appeal process, and while the decision of the
orientation, genetic information, veteran status, or military service. This
Dean of Students or the Student Conduct Appeals Committee is
prohibition applies to all students, employees, contractors, visitors, and
pending, the student must continue to comply with all conditions of
volunteers.
the original decision made by the faculty member. Unless otherwise
specified in the original written notification of suspension, a student
Mines will not tolerate retaliation against Mines community members for
may continue to attend classes while the appeal is pending.
filing complaints regarding or implicating any of these protected statuses,
or otherwise participating in investigations regarding such complaints.
4.7 Decision
It is a violation of this policy to intentionally submit a false complaint or file
At the conclusion of the appeal meeting, the Student Conduct
a complaint that is not made in good faith or to provide materially false or
Appeals Board will make one of the following decisions:
misleading information during an investigation.
1. Reverse the decision of the faculty member and withdraw
3.0 RESPONSIBILITIES
the charge from the student’s record.
2. Affirm the decision of the faculty member and uphold the The Board of Trustees directs the president, or the president’s delegates
sanction(s). to develop, manage, and maintain appropriate procedures and resources
3. Forward the case to the Office of Academic Affairs for to implement this policy.
further consideration: the Student Conduct Appeals
Board believes that additional matters implicated in

6 Policies and Procedures
4.0 COMPLIANCE/ENFORCEMENT students at Mines will result in disciplinary action consistent with School
policies, and local, state, and federal laws.
Violators of this policy will be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment, expulsion, and termination of While Colorado's constitution allows for specific legal use, possession,
contractual relationships with Mines. and growing of marijuana under certain circumstances, because of Mines'
status as a federal contractor and grant recipient and because marijuana
5.0 EXCLUSIONS/DISCLAIMER use is still prohibited under federal law, the use, possession, and growing
of marijuana on campus is prohibited. Student use of alcohol and other
No one filing a complaint under this policy will be permitted to
drugs (including marijuana) that results in an impaired ability to perform
simultaneously file a grievance under the State of Colorado Personnel
academically, or behavior that violates the Code of Conduct constitutes a
Board Rules or Colorado School of Mines Faculty Handbook against the
violation of this policy.
same individual and arising out of the same event(s).
For more information, or for further policy details, please see the Alcohol
6.0 RESOURCES OR ATTACHMENTS
and Other Drugs Education and Prevention Policy and the Colorado
- Equal Pay Act of 1963 Drug Law Summary in the Policy Library, student section. Also see the
Residence Life Policies and the Annual Campus Security and Fire Safety
- Titles IV, VI, and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
Report for more on programming and requirements.
- Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972
- Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (sections 503 and 504) Electronic Communications (Email) Policy
- Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act
1.0 BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE
- Age Discrimination Act
- Pregnancy Discrimination Act Communication to students at Colorado School of Mines (Mines) is an
important element of the official business of the university. It is vital
- Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1976
that Mines have an efficient and workable means of getting important
- Americans with Disabilities Act (as amended)
and timely information to students. Examples of communications that
- Executive Order 11246 require timely distribution include information from Fiscal Services, the
- Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Crime Registrar's Office, or other offices on campus that need to deliver official
Statistics Act of 1991 and time-sensitive information to students. (Please note that emergency
- Uniform Services Employment and Reemployment Act communications may occur in various forms based on the specific
- Violence Against Women Act of 1994 circumstances).
- Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 Electronic communication through email and Trailhead Portal
- Colorado Anti-Discrimination Act announcements provides a rapid, efficient, and effective form of
- Statement of Equal Opportunity, Access, and Nondiscrimination communication. Reliance on electronic communication has become
(https://www.mines.edu/equal-opportunity/) the accepted norm within the Mines community. Additionally, utilizing
- Title IX Office website: https://www.mines.edu/title-ix/ electronic communications is consistent with encouraging a more
environmentally conscious means of doing business and encouraging
- Human Resources website: https://www.mines.edu/human-
continued stewardship of scarce resources. Because of the widespread
resources/
use and acceptance of electronic communication, Mines is adopting the
KEY WORDS following policy regarding electronic communications with students.
Discrimination, harassment, age, ancestry, creed, marital status, race,
2.0 POLICY
color, ethnicity, religion, national origin, sex, gender, gender identity,
gender expression, disability, sexual orientation, genetic information, It is the policy of Colorado School of Mines that official university-related
veteran status, military service communications with students will be sent via Mines' internal email
system or via campus or targeted Trailhead announcements. All students
HISTORY & REVIEW CYCLE
will be assigned a Mines email address and are expected to periodically
For a complete policy statement and the most up-to-date procedures, check their Mines assigned email as well as their Trailhead portal page.
please see the policy website. Promulgated by the Mines Board of It is also expected that email sent to students will be read in a timely
Trustees on March 13, 1992. Amended by the Mines Board of Trustees manner. Communications sent via email to students will be considered to
on June 10, 1999; June 22, 2000; June 7, 2003; August 14, 2007; August have been received and read by the intended recipients.
29, 2014; February 8, 2019; and August 14, 2020.
For a complete policy statement and associated procedures please
Alcohol and Other Drugs Education and see the policy website, information technology section. The policy
website shall be considered the official & controlling Mines' policy.
Prevention Policy
Nothing in the procedures should be construed as prohibiting university-
In compliance with the federal government's Drug Free Schools related communications being sent via traditional means. Use of paper-
and Communities Act, there are community standards and potential based communication may be necessary under certain circumstances
consequences at Colorado School of Mines pertaining to the illegal use or may be more appropriate to certain circumstances. Examples of such
of alcohol or drugs. The unlawful possession, use, or distribution of illicit communications could include, but not be limited to disciplinary notices,
drugs and the unlawful or unauthorized use of alcohol by employees and fiscal services communications, graduation information, and so forth.
Questions about this policy may be directed to either of the following:

Registrar's Office at 303-273-3200 or registrar@mines.edu; or 5. Academic Probation/Suspension List: Dean of Students and
Graduate Dean
Computing, Communications & Information Technologies (CCIT) at
6. Advisor File: Academic Advisor
303-273-3431 or complete a request form at the Mines Help Center.
7. Option/Advisor/Enrolled/ Minority/Foreign List: Registrar, Dean of
Student Complaint Process Students, and Graduate Dean
8. Externally Generated SAT/GRE Score Lists: Graduate Dean
Students are consumers of services offered as part of their academic
9. Financial Aid File: Financial Aid (closed records)
and co-curricular experience at Colorado School of Mines. If a student
10. Medical History File: School Physician (closed records)
needs to make a complaint, specific or general, about their experience
at Mines, he or she should contact the Office of the Dean of Students
Access to Records by Other Parties. Colorado School of Mines will not
at 303-273-3288. If the issue is related to discrimination, sexual
permit access to student records by persons outside the school except as
harassment, or sexual violence, there are specific procedures that will
follows:
be followed (these are noted and linked in this section, or contact the
Director, Title IX & Equity, 303-273-2558. Additional contacts listed in 1. In the case of open record information as specified in the section
the Title IX section below.) For all other concerns, the student should under Directory Information.
begin with the Dean's Office if interested in making any complaint. 2. To those people specifically designated by the student. Examples
All complaints, as well as the interests of all involved parties, will be would include request for transcript to be sent to graduate school or
considered with fairness, impartiality, and promptness while a complaint prospective employer.
is being researched and/or investigated by the school.
3. Information required by a state or federal agency for the purpose of
Access to Student Records establishing eligibility for financial aid.
4. Accreditation agencies during their on-campus review.
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) gives students 5. In compliance with a judicial order or lawfully issued subpoena after
who reach the age of 18 or who attend a postsecondary institution the the student has been notified of the intended compliance.
right to inspect, review, and request amendment their own Education
6. Any institutional information for statistical purposes which is not
Records. At the postsecondary level, parents have no inherent rights
identifiable with a particular student.
to inspect, review, or request amendment to a student’s Education
7. In compliance with any applicable statue now in effect or later
Records. Mines will provide an annual notice of rights under FERPA
enacted. Each individual record (general, transcript, advisor,
to students currently attending the University. Mines may disclose
and medical) will include a log of those persons not employed by
information contained in a student’s Education Record as set forth in the
Colorado School of Mines who have requested or obtained access to
Mines Notice of Student Rights Under the Family Educational Rights and
the student record and the legitimate interest that the person has in
Privacy Act of 1974. Mines will securely destroy Education Records that
making the request.
are no longer required to be maintained using a method that renders the
content irretrievable and illegible.
The school discloses education records without a student's prior written
consent under the FERPA exception for disclosure to school officials with
Contact information for FERPA complaints:
legitimate educational interests. A school official is a person employed
Family Policy Compliance Office by the school in an administrative, supervisory, academic or research,
U.S. Department of Education or support staff position (including law enforcement unit personnel and
400 Maryland Avenue, SW health staff); a person or company with whom the school has contracted
Washington, D. C. 20202-4605 as its agent to provide a service instead of using school employees or
officials (such as an attorney, auditor, or collection agent); a person
Directory Information. The school maintains lists of information serving on the Board of Trustees; or a student serving on an official
which may be considered directory information as defined by the committee, such as a disciplinary or grievance committee, or assisting
regulations. This information includes name, current and permanent another school official in performing his or her tasks.
addresses and phone numbers, date of birth, major field of study, dates
of attendance, part- or full-time status, degrees awarded, last school A school official has a legitimate educational interest if the official needs
attended, participation in officially recognized activities and sports, class, to review an education record in order to fulfill his or her professional
academic honors, university email address, and photo including student responsibilities for the school.
ID picture. Students who desire that this information not be printed or
See also https://www.mines.edu/policy-library/ferpa-policy/.
released must so inform the registrar before the end of the first two weeks
of the fall semester for which the student is registered. Information will
Posthumous Degree Awards
be withheld for the entire academic year unless the student changes this
request. The student’s signature is required to make any changes for The faculty may recognize the accomplishments of students who have
the current academic year. The request must be renewed each fall term died while pursuing their educational goals. If it is reasonable to expect
for the upcoming year. The following student records are maintained by that the student would have completed his or her degree requirements,
Colorado School of Mines at the various offices listed below: the faculty may award a baccalaureate or graduate degree that is in all
ways identical to the degree the student was pursuing. Alternatively,
1. General Records: Registrar and Graduate Dean
the faculty may award a posthumous BS, MS, or PhD to commemorate
2. Transcript of Grades: Registrar students who distinguished themselves while at Mines by bringing honor
3. Computer Grade Lists: Registrar to the school and its traditions.
4. Encumbrance List: Controller and Registrar

8 Policies and Procedures
Consideration for either of these degrees begins with a petition to The Policy Prohibiting Sexual Misconduct, Discrimination, and Retaliation
the Faculty Senate from an academic department or degree granting can be found here: https://policylibrary.mines.edu/policy-prohibiting-
unit. The petition should identify the degree sought. In the event that sexual-misconduct-discrimination-and-retaliation/
the degree-granting unit is seeking a conventional degree award, the
petition should include evidence of the reasonable expectations that the Additionally, student complaints of discrimination, harassment, and
student would have completed his or her degree requirements. For a retaliation on the basis of a protected class (race, color, religion or creed,
baccalaureate, such evidence could consist of, but is not limited to: sex [including pregnancy, childbirth, related medical conditions, sexual
orientation, gender identity, and gender expression], marital status,
- The student was a senior in the final semester of coursework, ethnicity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, ancestry,
- The student was enrolled in courses that would have completed the and veteran status or military service), are managed through the Office of
degree requirements at the time of death Equity and Title IX.
- The student would have passed the courses with an acceptable
SpeakUP@Mines
grade, and would likely have fulfilled the requirements of the degree.
Students and employees have an additional anonymous channel
For a Graduate Degree:
for reporting concerns through the Whistleblower Policy and the
- For graduate degrees not requiring a research product, the student SpeakUP@Mines program.
was enrolled in courses that would have completed the degree
Consumer Information – Your Right to
requirements at the time of death, would have passed the courses
with an acceptable grade, and would likely have fulfilled the Know
requirements of the degree.
Colorado School of Mines is committed to transparency and providing
- For graduate degrees requiring a research product, the student had
students, families, and the public with clear, accurate information about
completed all course and mastery requirements pursuant to the
institutional policies, programs, costs, and outcomes. In accordance with
degree and was near completion of the dissertation or thesis, and the
federal and state regulations, Mines makes available a comprehensive
student’s committee found the work to be substantial and worthy of
array of consumer information, including but not limited to: financial
the degree.
aid policies and procedures; tuition and fees; cost of attendance;
The requirement that there be a reasonable expectation of degree student rights and responsibilities; campus safety and security reports;
completion should be interpreted liberally and weight should be given completion, graduation, and transfer-out rates; and student loan
to the judgment of the departmental representative(s) supporting the borrowing information.
petition.
Consumer information is available on the Mines Student Right to
In the event that the degree being sought is a posthumous BS, MS, or Know website: https://ir.mines.edu/student-right-to-know/. It may also
PhD, the petition should include evidence that the student conducted be obtained in paper form upon request from Financial Aid or the Mines
himself or herself in the best tradition of a Mines’ graduate and is Compliance Office. Mines encourages all current and prospective
therefore deserving of that honor. students to review this information to make informed decisions regarding
their educational investment and academic planning.
Equal Opportunity, Equal Access, and
Affirmative Action
The institution’s Statement of Equal Opportunity and Equal Access to
Educational Programs and associated staff contacts can be found in
the Welcome Section of this Catalog as well as on the policy webpage.
Colorado School of Mines maintains an affirmative action plan, which is
available at the Arthur Lakes Library, the Dean of Students Office, and
the Office of Human Resources.
Office of Institutional Equity and Title IX
Pursuant to Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, 20 U.S.C. §
1681, and 34 CFR Part 106, Mines does not discriminate on the basis of
sex in any of its education programs or activities, including admissions
and employment. All inquiries about the application of Title IX or Part 106
may be directed to Mines Title IX Coordinator or the Assistant Secretary
of Education, U.S. Department of Education, or both:
Mines Title IX Coordinator is Carole Goddard.
Office: Title IX House, 1706 Illinois Street
Email: titleix@mines.edu
Phone: 303-273-3260
Website: https://www.mines.edu/institutional-equity-title-ix/