SOURCE: documents/registrationandtuitionclassification.pdf
============================================================

Registration and Tuition who submit either form after the add/drop date may be withdrawn from
credits, but will still owe tuition and fees.
Classification
Students who wish to be dropped or withdraw from all credits, but do not
submit either the Leave of Absence form or the Withdrawal form, will be
responsible for paying tuition and fees.
General Registration Requirements
Research Registration
The normal full-time credit load for graduate students is 9 credits per
semester. In addition to completing the required coursework and defending a
thesis, students in thesis-based degree programs must complete
Full-time graduate students may register for an overload of up to 6 credits a research experience under the direct supervision of their faculty
(up to 15 credits total) per semester at no increase in tuition. Subject advisor(s). Masters students must complete a minimum* of 6 research
to written approval by their advisor and department head or program credits, and doctoral students must complete a minimum* of 24 research
director, students may register for more than 15 credits per semester by credits at Mines. While completing their research, students register for
paying additional tuition at the regular per credit rate for all credits over research credit under courses numbered 707. Faculty advisors assign
15. The maximum number of credits for which a student can register grades indicating satisfactory or unsatisfactory progress based on their
during the summer is 12. evaluation of the student’s work.
Students in any of the following categories must register as full-time For students registered for research during the summer semester
students. and working on campus, regular tuition and fees are due for summer
semester research credits. Students may not transfer research credits
- International on-campus students subject to immigration
from other institutions, so students working on research abroad must
requirements. This applies to international students holding J-1 and
either register for research credits at Mines or submit the Leave of
F-1 visas.
Absence paperwork. Those who take a Leave of Absence may not use
- Students receiving financial assistance in the form of graduate
any Mines campus resources, including, but not limited to consultations
teaching assistantships, research assistantships, fellowships, or
with advisors, committee members and other Mines students during the
hourly contracts.
term of leave.
- Students enrolled in academic programs that require full-time
registration. Refer to the degree program sections of this catalog to * Departmental requirements may require students to complete more
see if this applies to a particular program. than the institutional minimum number of research credits.
Special cases to the full-time registration requirement for students listed
Eligibility for Reduced Registration
above fall under Full Time Status-Required Course load and include
first-year international students who must receive special instruction
Students enrolled in thesis-based degree programs who have completed
to improve their language skills, and thesis-based students who have
a minimum number of courses and research credits in their degree
completed their credit requirements, have completed all required
programs are eligible to continue to pursue their graduate program as full-
paperwork, are eligible for reduced registration, and are working full
time students at a reduced registration level. In order to be considered
time on their thesis (see section on reduced registration). To remain
for this reduced, full-time registration category, students must satisfy the
active in their degree program, all graduate students must register
following requirements:
continuously each fall and spring semester. If not required to register
full time, students may register as a part-time student for any number 1. For MS students,
of credits (1 credit minimum). Students who need to take a semester a. Completion of 30 credits of eligible course, research, and transfer
off must submit paperwork for a Leave of Absence by the appropriate credits combined (36 if master's degree requires 36 credits), and
deadline as described below, or the degree program will be terminated.
b. Paid for 24 credits (27 if master's degree requires 36 credits).
Summer registration is not required to maintain active status in a i. 1-9 credits per semester count as paid credits; 10-15 credits
graduate program. However, students must register if they are working do not count as paid credits.
on their degree requirements and utilizing Mines facilities during the 2. For PhD students,
summer. Students registered during the summer are assessed regular a. Completion of 72 credits of eligible course, research, and transfer
tuition and fees. credits combined, and
b. Paid for 54 credits.
New graduate students are expected to register for and pay for credits in
i. 1-9 credits per semester count as paid credits; 10-15 credits
the term in which they are admitted, including summer admittance.
do not count as paid credits.
Graduate students who register for credits in any term are responsible 3. For all students, an approved thesis committee form and Degree
for payment for those credits. Payment information can be found here: Audit form must be submitted the semester prior to the one for which
https://www.mines.edu/bursar/tuition/. a student wishes to be in reduced registration status*.
4. PhD students must submit an approved Admission to Candidacy
Graduate students who wish to be dropped from all credits in a term must form by the first day of classes in the semester for which the student
either submit the Leave of Absence paperwork or the Withdrawal from wishes to be in reduced registration status*.
Graduate School paperwork by the add/drop date of that term. Students

2 Registration and Tuition Classification
Major degree transfer credit limitations:
* See OGS Graduation Deadlines webpage for specific deadlines.
Students who are eligible for reduced registration are considered full - 30-credit master’s non-thesis degree programs are limited to no more
time if they register for 4 credits of research under course number 707. than 9 transfer credits.
- 36-credit master’s non-thesis degree programs are limited to no more
than 15 transfer credits.
Full-time Status – Required Course Load
- 30-38-credit master’s thesis degree programs are limited to no more
To be deemed full-time during the fall and spring semesters, students than 9 transfer credits.
must register for at least 9 credits. - PhD students transferring a thesis-based master’s degree from
another university* may transfer up to 36 credits.
Alternatively, as described above, if a thesis-based student has
- PhD students transferring individual coursework, or any graduate-
completed their required coursework and research credits, has completed
level degree other than a thesis-based master’s degree from another
all required forms, and has received confirmation from the Office of
university,* may transfer up to 24 credits.
Graduate Studies that they are eligible for reduced registration, the
- *Any credits taken at Mines and listed on a Mines graduate-level
student will be deemed full-time if they are registered for at least 4 credits
transcript are not transfer credits.
of research credit.
- *PhD students may, with committee and department head/
Student enrollment is not required during the summer for continuing program director approval, use all credits from a Mines master’s
Mines students, unless it is a condition of holding certain fellowships or degree toward a PhD, as long as the credits were not used
an appointment as a research or teaching assistant. To be deemed full- toward two Mines master’s degrees.
time during the summer, students must register for at least 3 credits.
Minor degree transfer credit limitations:
Note: The above academic definition of full-time for fall, spring,
and summer applies to International Students (F and J) for status - Less than half of the minor credit requirement may be transfer credits.
maintenance purposes. - Masters students may transfer no more than 4 credits toward a
minor.
The definition of full-time for the purpose of qualifying for federal financial - PhD students may transfer no more than 5.5 credits towards a
aid is 9 credits in fall, spring or summer. minor.
Transfer Credits
Transfer credit conversion:
With prior approval, graduate students may use transfer coursework Colorado School of Mines uses semester credits. Any transfer credits
credits toward a master's or PhD degree, but not toward a graduate taken at a university that does not use semester credits will have the
certificate. All transfer credits must be listed on the Degree Audit form credits converted. U.S. Quarter credits are equivalent to # semester
and have the appropriate signatures of approval. credits. European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS)
credits are equivalent to 1⁄2 semester credits. Other credits will be
- Masters non-thesis and professional masters students must
assessed on an individual basis.
receive approval from the advisor, co-advisor (if applicable), minor
representative (if applicable), and department head/program director. Dropping and Adding Courses
- Masters thesis and PhD students must receive approval from the
advisor, co-advisor (if applicable), all committee members, minor Students may add or drop some, but not all credits, through web
representative (if applicable), and the department head/program registration without paying a fee during the add/drop period listed on
director. the Academic Calendar. Graduate students who wish to drop all credits
during the fall or spring term must submit either the Leave of Absence or
Transfer credit limitations apply to all major and minor degrees. Transfer Withdrawal from Graduate School paperwork by the add/drop deadline.
credits from other universities must be for coursework (research credits
cannot be transferred except in cases when a full thesis master's Withdrawing from Courses
program is applied toward a PhD); must be graduate level with a grade of
After the add/drop date, students may withdraw through web registration
C or better; cannot have been used toward an undergraduate degree and
from some credits, but not all, for any reason. In this situation students
cannot be for prerequisite or deficiency credits. Credits without a letter
receive a grade of “W” for the withdrawn credits through the last day
grade (Pass/Fail, Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory, etc.) will not be accepted as
to withdraw noted on the Academic Calendar. Students who wish to
transfer credit.
withdraw from all credits must submit a Withdrawal from Graduate
Grades for transfer credits will not be transferred and therefore will not School form if they intend to leave Mines. If a student wishes to remain
impact a student's graduate GPA in a degree program after withdrawing from all credits, they must
either register for the immediately subsequent semester to avoid being
The Admissions Office must have official transcripts on file prior to withdrawn involuntarily from Graduate School, or submit Leave of
transferring credit from another university. Absence paperwork (if required by program; see catalog section on
Leave of Absence) by the add/drop date in the subsequent term.
Due to time constraints of receiving transcripts and grades, students
taking or wishing to apply transfer credits in their last semester may After the last day to withdraw on the Academic Calendar, no withdrawals
not be able to graduate in that semester. Students studying abroad are are permitted, except in case of complete withdrawal from graduate
encouraged to not do so during their last semester.

school. If extenuating circumstances apply, contact the Office of Mines or led by a Mines faculty member. The registration must occur in
Graduate Studies. the same term that the off-campus study takes place. In addition, the
student must complete the necessary release, waiver, emergency contact
Any student on approved Leave of Absence must submit a Return from forms, transfer credit pre-approvals, and FERPA release, as well as
Leave form. The student will be reinstated to active status upon approval providing adequate proof of current health insurance prior to departure.
of their return by their advisor and their department head or program For additional information concerning study abroad requirements, contact
director. the Office of Global Education at https://www.mines.edu/global/study-
abroad-student-exchange/. For other information, contact the Registrar’s
Students who have already used two semesters of Leave of Absence will
Office.
need to submit the Withdrawal from Graduate School form if they are not
able to return after the second semester of leave. Students who withdraw Students conducting research off campus must either register for
from graduate school will need to reapply for admission online and be re- research credits at Mines or submit the Leave of Absence paperwork.
accepted. Students on leave may not use any campus resources, including work
with advisor, committee members and any Mines students.
The financial impact of a withdrawal is covered in the section on
“Payments and Refunds.” Students conducting research abroad must comply with the research off-
campus rules above and need to register with the Study Abroad Office.
Students may not transfer research credits from another university. All
graduate students must register for credits at Colorado School of Mines
Auditing Courses
for at least one semester. A semester of study abroad does not count
toward this requirement.
As part of the maximum of 15 credits of graduate work, students may
enroll for no credit (NC) in a course with the permission of the instructor. Students studying abroad who are using study abroad transfer credits
Tuition charges are the same for no credit as for credit enrollment. toward a degree program must have official transcripts on file with the
Registrar's Office prior to graduation. Since overseas transcripts often
Students must enroll for no credit before, the last day of registration. The
take longer to arrive than U.S. transcripts, students who are studying
form to enroll for a course for no credit is available from the Registrar’s
abroad during their last semester may not be able to graduate in that
Office. NC designation is awarded only if all conditions stipulated by the
same semester.
course instructors are met by the student by the end of the semester.
Online students please visit Mines Online for additional information on
Mines requires that all U.S. students who are being supported by the
services and support.
institution register full time, and federal financial aid regulations prohibit
Mines from counting NC registration in determining financial aid eligibility. Numbering of Courses
In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) requires that
international students register full time, and Mines is discouraged from Course numbering is based on the content of material presented in
counting NC registration toward that requirement. Furthermore, there are courses:
no consistent standards for expectations of students who register for NC
Material Level Division
in a course. Therefore, in order to treat all Mines students consistently,
NC registration will not count toward the minimum number of credits 100-199 Freshman Level Lower Division
for which students are required to register. This includes the minimum 200-299 Sophomore Level Lower Division
continuous registration requirement of part-time students and the 9-credit 300-399 Junior Level Upper Division
requirement for students who must register full time.
400-499 Senior Level Upper Division
The reduced registration policy is based on the principle that the 500-599 Graduate Level
minimum degree requirement (30 or 36 credits for a master's thesis 600-699 Advanced Graduate
program or 72 credits for a PhD) includes only the credits applied toward Level
that degree. Deficiency and extra courses are above and beyond that Over 700 Graduate Research or
minimum. NC courses fall into the latter category and may not be applied Thesis Level
toward the degree. Therefore, NC registration does not count toward
the number of credits required for a student to be eligible for reduced
registration status.
NC registration may involve additional effort on the part of faculty to
give and/or grade assignments or exams, so it is the institution’s policy
to charge tuition for NC courses. Therefore, NC registration will count
toward the maximum number of credits for which a graduate student may
be allowed to register. This includes a tuition surcharge for credits taken
over 15.
Off-Campus Study
A student must enroll in an official Mines course for any period of off-
campus, course-related study, whether U.S. or abroad, including faculty-
led short courses, study abroad, or any off-campus trip sponsored by