SOURCE: documents/robotics.pdf
============================================================

Robotics prepare candidates for industry careers in robotics. The thesis MS and
PhD degrees are designed to prepare students for research careers.
Combined Program: The Robotics program also offers combined BS+MS
Degrees Offered
degrees. These degrees offer an expedited graduate school application
- Graduate certificate in Robotics process and allow students to begin graduate coursework while still
finishing their undergraduate degree requirements.
- Master of Science in Robotics (non-thesis)
- Master of Science in Robotics (thesis) Admissions and Program Policies
- Doctor of Philosophy in Robotics
Mines' Combined Undergraduate/Graduate
Program Description
Degree Program
The Robotics program offers a graduate certificate and the degrees of
Students enrolled in Mines’ combined undergraduate/graduate program
Master of Science and Doctor of Philosophy in Robotics. The graduate
may double count up to 6 credits of graduate coursework to fulfill
certificate is intended for working professionals. The non-thesis MS
requirements of both their undergraduate and graduate degree programs.
is designed to prepare candidates for industry careers in robotics.
These courses must have been passed with B- or better, not be
The thesis MS and PhD degrees are designed to prepare students for
substitutes for required coursework, and meet all other university,
research careers.
department, and program requirements for graduate credit.
Primary Contact
Students are advised to consult with their undergraduate and graduate
Robotics Program advisors for appropriate courses to double count upon admission to the
https://robotics.mines.edu/ combined program.
Program Director MS and PhD
Xiaoli Zhang The minimum requirements for admission to the MS and PhD degrees in
Robotics are:
Professors
- Applicants must have a Bachelor’s degree, or equivalent, from an
Qi Han accredited institution with a grade-point average of 3.0 or better on a 4.0
scale prior to matriculating into the Robotics degree program.
Kathryn Johnson
- Students are expected to have completed the following coursework:
Tyrone Vincent
1) two semesters of calculus, 2) differential equations, and 3) data
Xiaoli Zhang structures. The Robotics graduate admissions committee may require
that students who do not meet this expectation demonstrate competency
Associate Professors or take remedial coursework. Such coursework may not count toward
the graduate degree. The committee will decide whether to recommend
Hao Zhang
regular or provisional admission.
Assistant Professors
- Graduate Record Examination (Quantitative section) score of 151 or
Micah Corah higher (or 650 on the old scale). Applicants who have graduated with a
computer science, engineering, or math degree from Mines within the
Neil Dantam past five years are not required to submit GRE scores.
Kaveh Fathian - Applicants who are not U.S. citizens or permanent residents and whose
native language is not English, must prove English proficiency as part of
George Kontoudis the application process. Refer to the Graduate Admissions website for
more details.
Yangming Shi
- For the PhD program, prior research experience is desired but not
Thomas Williams
required.
Qin Zhu
Transfer Credit
Frankie Zhu
Graduate-level courses taken at other universities for which a grade
Professor Emeritus equivalent to a B or better was received will be considered for transfer
credit with approval of the advisor and/or thesis committee, and home
Kevin Moore department head, as appropriate. Transfer credits must not have been
used as credit toward a bachelor's degree. For the MS degree, no more
The Robotics program offers graduate certificate, Master of Science and
than nine credits may transfer. For the PhD degree, up to 24 credits
Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Robotics. The graduate certificate is
of courses may be transferred. In lieu of transfer credit for individual
intended for working professionals. The non-thesis MS is designed to
courses, students who enter the PhD program with a thesis-based

2 Robotics
master’s degree from another institution may transfer up to 36 credits in At the conclusion of the MS thesis, the student must make a formal
recognition of the course work and research completed for that degree. presentation and defense of their thesis research. A student must
pass this defense to earn an MS degree.
Advisor and Thesis Committees
Robotics Core Four courses, one from each focus area's core 12.0
Students must have an advisor from the Robotics faculty to direct and
(Breadth) course list
monitor their academic plan, research, and independent studies. Advisors
Robotics Two courses from robotics course list 6.0
must be full-time permanent members of the faculty. In this context, full-
Electives (Depth)
time permanent members of the faculty are those that hold the rank of
professor, associate professor, assistant professor, research professor, Technical One course in any participating robotics 3.0
associate research professor or assistant research professor. Upon Electives department (CSCI, EDNS, EENG, MATH, MEGN)
approval by the graduate dean, adjunct faculty, teaching faculty, visiting ROBO707 GRADUATE THESIS / DISSERTATION 9.0
professors, emeritus professors and off-campus representatives may be RESEARCH CREDIT
designated additional co-advisors. A list of Robotics faculty by rank is
Total Semester Hrs 30.0
available in the faculty tab of the catalog.
PhD Degree
The department of the advisor is the student’s home department.
The Robotics PhD requires 36 credits of coursework plus 36 research
Master of Science (thesis option) students in Robotics must have at least
credits. The table below summarizes the coursework requirements. PhD
three members on their thesis committee. In addition to the institutional
students must additionally complete a qualifying examination, a thesis
requirements, at least one committee member who is not the advisor
proposal, and a thesis defense.
must be Robotics faculty.
Robotics Core Four courses, one from each focus area's core 12.0
Robotics PhD thesis committees must have at least four members. In
(Breadth) course list
addition to the institutional requirements, at least one committee member
Robotics Four Courses from robotics course list 12.0
who is not the advisor must be Robotics faculty.
Electives (Depth)
Program Requirements Technical Four courses in any participating robotics 12.0
Electives department (CSCI, EDNS, EENG, MATH, MEGN)
Graduate Certificate
ROBO707 GRADUATE THESIS / DISSERTATION 36.0
The graduate certificate will require 12 credits of coursework. The table RESEARCH CREDIT
below summarizes the requirements for the graduate certificate. Total Semester Hrs 72.0
Robotics Core Four courses, one from each focus area's core 12.0 Robotics PhD Qualifying Examination
course list
The Robotics PhD Qualifying Examination will test a student’s ability
Total Semester Hrs 12.0
to conduct research in their chosen area. The qualifier will have two
components: a coursework component and a research component.
MS Degrees
Coursework Qualifier: To satisfy the coursework component of
The MS degrees will require 30 credits, with thesis research options
the qualifier, the student must complete their four selected Robotics
substituting for electives.
core courses with a minimum grade of B in each class.
MS Non-Thesis (MS-NT)
Research Qualifier: The research qualifier consists of a
Students must take 30 credits of coursework to complete the research project. Robotics PhD students must take the qualifying
degree. The table below summarizes the requirements for the MS- examination by the end of their fourth semester (typically by the
NT degree. end of their second year). The examination will be evaluated by a
committee consisting of at least the student’s advisor, a Robotics-
Robotics Core Four courses, one from each focus area's core 12.0 affiliated faculty member, and one additional faculty member.
(Breadth) course list
Robotics Two courses from robotics course list 6.0 For the qualifier, the student will conduct a literature review of
Electives (Depth) 30-40 papers and perform a research project approaching the level
necessary for a conference publication. The research project must
Technical Four courses in any participating robotics 12.0
be approved by the advisor and committee and will likely be some
Electives department (CSCI, EDNS, EENG, MATH, MEGN)
combination of the following:
Total Semester Hrs 30.0
- Design, analyze and/or simulate a novel robot system,
MS Thesis
- Design and evaluate new algorithms or systems for an
Students must take 21 credits of coursework and 9 credits of important research problem,
MS thesis research to complete the degree. The table below
summarizes the requirements for the MS Thesis degree. - Develop a new research software system,
- Solve a set of theoretical problems.

The deliverables will be a literature review (3-4 pages, IEEE style ROBO533 PLANNING FOR SENSING, PERCEPTION, AND 3.0
[4]), a research report (4-5 pages, IEEE style), and a research COVERAGE
presentation (30 minutes to present, plus questions) delivered to ROBO534 ROBOT PLANNING AND MANIPULATION 3.0
the committee.
ROBO535 ADVANCED MACHINE LEARNING 3.0
At the conclusion of the qualifier presentation, each committee
Elective Courses - None.
member will vote their evaluation as one of “Strong Support,” “Weak
Support,” or “Do not support.” The student must receive at least two Action
“Strong Support” votes to pass. In the case the student does not
pass, the committee may decide to offer a “conditional pass” based Core Courses
on extra conditions, such as revisions to the report or additional
experiments, the student must perform to pass the qualifier. The ROBO554 ROBOT MECHANICS: KINEMATICS,
committee will set an explicit deadline for student to complete the DYNAMICS, AND CONTROL
extra conditions. If the student does not meet the extra conditions ROBO550 MECHATRONICS 3.0
as determined by the committee by the deadline, the “conditional ROBO565 ADVANCED ROBOT CONTROL 3.0
pass” becomes a “fail.” If the student does not pass the qualifier
ROBO567 THEORY AND DESIGN OF ADVANCED 3.0
on their first attempt (inclusive of a conditional pass), they may
CONTROL SYSTEMS
make one additional attempt to pass; the same conditional pass
procedure may also be applied to the second attempt. A student Elective Courses
who fails the qualifier on the second attempt may not continue in
the program. EENG515 MATHEMATICAL METHODS FOR SIGNALS AND3.0
SYSTEMS
Robotics PhD Proposal and Defense
ROBO566 MODERN CONTROL DESIGN 3.0
After passing the qualifying examination, the student must prepare a
Interaction & Society
written thesis proposal and present it formally to the student’s thesis
committee and other interested faculty. Typically, the proposal will take
Core Courses
place within 24 months of the student completing the qualifier.
ROBO572 ROBOT ETHICS 3.0
The committee for the thesis proposal and defense will follow institutional
ROBO576 HUMAN-ROBOT INTERACTION 3.0
requirements. Additionally, at least one committee member who is not the
advisor must be robotics-affiliated faculty.
Elective Courses
At the conclusion of the student’s PhD program, the student must make a
CSCI5XX LINGUISTIC HUMAN-ROBOT INTERACTION 3.0
formal presentation and defense of their thesis research. A student must
“pass” this defense to earn a PhD degree. Typically, the defense will take
Additional Robotics Electives
place within 24 months of the student completing the thesis proposal.
CSCI561 THEORY OF COMPUTATION 3.0
Robotics Course List
CSCI562 APPLIED ALGORITHMS AND DATA 3.0
The Robotics courses are divided into four focus areas. Each focus area STRUCTURES
is comprised of core courses and electives, as detailed below. Beyond CSCI565 DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS 3.0
the courses in these four focus areas, there is also a list of additional
CSCI572 COMPUTER NETWORKS II 3.0
Robotics electives.
EENG511 CONVEX OPTIMIZATION AND ITS 3.0
Perception ENGINEERING APPLICATIONS
EENG521 NUMERICAL OPTIMIZATION 3.0
Core Courses
MEGN586 LINEAR OPTIMIZATION 3.0
ROBO513 ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND PERCEPTION 3.0 MEGN587 NONLINEAR OPTIMIZATION 3.0
ROBO517 INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER VISION 3.0 MEGN588 INTEGER OPTIMIZATION 3.0
ROBO529 ESTIMATION THEORY AND KALMAN 3.0 MEGN686 ADVANCED LINEAR OPTIMIZATION
FILTERING MEGN688 ADVANCED INTEGER OPTIMIZATION 3.0
ROBO537 ROBOTIC MAPPING AND LOCALIZATION 3.0 ROBO509 SPACE ROBOTICS 3.0
Elective Courses ROBO509. SPACE ROBOTICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
This online course introduces students to the design, analysis, and
CSCI508 ADVANCED TOPICS IN PERCEPTION AND 3.0 operation of robotic spaceflight missions. By integrating space exploration
COMPUTER VISION with robotics, students will explore planetary science questions, develop
mission plans, and evaluate the technologies required to achieve
Cognition
mission objectives. Topics include sensor systems, automation trade-
offs, and rover mobility. The course prepares students for careers in
Core Courses
aerospace and robotics by providing essential technical, analytical,
and organizational skills to solve complex challenges in these fields.

4 Robotics
Prerequisites: SPRS501; Desired, some background in either aerospace - 3. Be able to use software tools to implement computer vision
engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, computer algorithms
science, or planetary science. - 4. Communicate (in oral and written form) methods and results to a
Course Learning Outcomes technical audience
- Evaluate state of the art planetary science questions and technology
ROBO529. ESTIMATION THEORY AND KALMAN FILTERING. 3.0
goals from authoritative space exploration roadmaps to inform the
Semester Hrs.
development of new robotic missions.
Estimation theory considers the extraction of useful information from
- Analyze the progression of spaceflight technologies, focusing on raw sensor measurements in the presence of signal uncertainty.
the advances in rover mobility and sensing capabilities for planetary Common applications include navigation, localization and mapping, but
surface exploration. applications can be found in all fields where measurements are used.
- Design an extraplanetary surface robotic mission with a science or Mathematic descriptions of random signals and the response of linear
technology goal derived from roadmaps. systems are presented. The discrete-time Kalman Filter is introduced,
- Assess the data signals from sensors necessary to produce the end and conditions for optimality are described. Implementation issues,
data product, which is informed by the science or technology goal. performance prediction, and filter divergence are discussed. Adaptive
estimation and nonlinear estimation are also covered. Contemporary
- Plan the mission operations and robot actuators necessary to achieve
applications will be utilized throughout the course. Offered Spring
mission objectives.
semester of odd years. 1.5 hours lecture; 1.5 hours other; 3 semester
- Differentiate operations between robot automation and human
hours.
teleoperation along the metrics of risk, SWaP, complexity, and
Course Learning Outcomes
timeline.
- Develop a perception framework and path planning strategy informed - Use Bayes' rule to calculate a statistical inference. Given a
by mission requirements and a concept of operation. description of a stochastic process, calculate the joint and conditional
- Design basic mobility algorithms constrained by robot capabilities and probabilities for this process.
limitations in Moon environment. - Using the appropriate algorithm, calculate the probability distribution
function for the state of a dynamic system with stochastic inputs.
ROBO513. ROBOT PROGRAMMING AND PERCEPTION. 3.0 - " Build a model of a dynamic system that includes a probabilistic
Semester Hrs. description of uncertain inputs.
In this class students will learn the basics of integrated robot system
- Design and implement an algorithm to estimate the internal states
programming and the design and use of algorithms for robot perception.
of a linear system with input signals that are Gaussian stochastic
Students will learn how to use the ROS robot middleware for the
processes.
design of robot systems for perceiving and navigating the world;
- Design and implement an algorithm to estimate the internal states of
develop reinforcement learning based models for perception-informed
general systems with general stochastic inputs.
autonomous navigation; and develop computational models for 3D robot
perception and perceptual representation of human data.
ROBO533. PLANNING FOR SENSING, PERCEPTION, AND
Course Learning Outcomes
COVERAGE. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- 1. Explain the basic concepts in human-centered robotics Identification of applications of theory. Prerequisites: Graduate
standing; Recommended: CSCI 406 (Algorithms); CSCI 358 (Discrete
- 2. Model and analyze human behaviors for human-robot interaction
Mathematics).
applications
Course Learning Outcomes
- 3. Recognize the cutting-edge human-centered robotics research and
applications - Formulate relevant optimization problems.
- 4. Apply the learned knowledge to other fields - Analyze optimization problems.
- Prove properties of planning algorithms.
ROBO517. INTRODUCTION TO COMPUTER VISION. 3.0 Semester
- Design and implementation of relevant methods.
Hrs.
(I) Computer vision is the process of using computers to acquire images, - Research reading and communication.
transform images, and extract symbolic descriptions from images. This - Design and solution for perception planning and sensing.
course provides an introduction to this field, covering topics in image - Identification of applications of theory.
formation, feature extraction, location estimation, and object recognition.
- Communication of research works.
Design ability and hands-on projects will be emphasized, using popular
- Breadth of applications.
software tools. The course will be of interest both to those who want to
learn more about the subject and to those who just want to use computer
ROBO534. ROBOT PLANNING AND MANIPULATION. 3.0 Semester
imaging techniques. 3 hours lecture; 3 semester hours. Prerequisite:
Hrs.
Undergraduate level knowledge of linear algebra, statistics, and a
An introduction to planning in the context of robotics covering symbolic
programming language.
and motion planning approaches. Symbolic computation, symbolic
Course Learning Outcomes
domains, and efficient algorithms for symbolic planning; Robot
- 1. Be able to analyze and predict the behavior of image formation, kinematics, configuration spaces, and algorithms for motion planning.
transformation, and recognition algorithms Applications of planning will focus on manipulation problems using robot
arms.
- 2. Be able to design, develop, and evaluate algorithms for specific
applications

Course Learning Outcomes - Learn standard benchmarking metrics used to evaluate the
performance of SLAM systems, and implement them to critically
- 1 - Implement algorithms for symbolic computation assess the accuracy, efficiency, and robustness of these systems.
- 2 - Construct symbolic planning domains for new scenarios - Build a complete SLAM pipeline from scratch in a team-based
- 3 - Implement algorithms for symbolic planning via constraint-solving project, and develop an understanding of the required real-world
and heuristic search trade-offs between performance, runtime, and robustness.
- 4 - Implement algorithms for sampling-based motion planning - Identify existing challenges and open problems in SLAM, and
- 5 - Construct kinematic models of robot manipulators propose innovative research directions to advance the state of the
- 6 - Analyze planning algorithms for key properties: correctness, field.
completeness, optimality
ROBO550. MECHATRONICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- 7 - Evaluate the suitability of different planning approaches and apply
A course focusing on implementation aspects of mechatronic and control
appropriate algorithms to new planning scenarios
systems. Significant lab component involving embedded C programming
- 8 - Communicate implementations, analysis, and evaluation in written on a mechatronics teaching platform, called a haptic paddle, a single
and oral form degree-of-freedom force-feedback joystick.
Course Learning Outcomes
ROBO535. ADVANCED MACHINE LEARNING. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
Machine learning is the study of computer algorithms that improve - 1. Become proficient in mechanical system modeling, system
automatically through experience. Machine learning systems do not identification and simulations.
have to be programmed by humans to solve a problem; instead, they - 2. Develop an understanding of how control theory is applied and
essentially program themselves based on examples of how they should implemented in practice.
behave, or based on trial and error experience trying to solve the
- 3. Learn fundamentals of and how to use semiconductor devices in
problem. This course aims at provide students with an understanding
mechatronic systems
of the capabilities of machine learning (especially for deep learning
- 4. Learn the basics of sensor and actuator theory, design, and
due to its state-of-the-art performance for predicting and understanding
application
data), and the knowledge to formulate the real-world problem to solve it
effectively by a combination of computational idea motivations, learning - 5. Gain experience in embedded C programming for mechatronic
theories, mathematical and optimization backgrounds/tools. systems
- 6. Gain experience in research article reading and technical
ROBO537. ROBOTIC MAPPING AND LOCALIZATION. 3.0 Semester
presentations
Hrs.
This course introduces the principles and techniques of simultaneous
ROBO554. ROBOT MECHANICS: KINEMATICS, DYNAMICS, AND
localization and mapping (SLAM), a core capability in modern robotics.
CONTROL. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
Students will learn how to leverage robot sensors (including cameras
Mathematical representation of robot structures. Mechanical analysis
and laser scanners) to construct 3D maps of an environment and
including kinematics, dynamics, and design of robot manipulators.
estimate the robot’s position within it. The course covers both the front-
Representations for trajectories and path planning for robots.
end techniques, which process raw sensor data (e.g., camera images)
Fundamentals of robot control including, linear, nonlinear and force
to generate initial 3D maps and position estimates, and the back-end
control methods. Introduction to off-line programming techniques
techniques, which refine these outputs by filtering outliers, optimizing
and simulation. Robotics students should register for ROBO554, not
trajectories, and fusing local maps into a consistent global representation.
MEGN544. 3 hours lecture; 3 semester hours. Prerequisites: EENG307
The course includes hands-on homework and projects in which students
and MEGN441.
will implement SLAM algorithms and test them on real-world data
collected by robots. Prerequisites: Familiarity with: - Linear algebra, ROBO565. ADVANCED ROBOT CONTROL. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
calculus, probability, and statistics - Linux, Algorithms, C++, and Python - The goal of this course is to give the students an introduction to a
Computer vision. fundamental working knowledge of the main techniques of intelligent
Course Learning Outcomes learning-based control and their applications in robotics and autonomous
systems. Specific topics include neural network based control, model
- Learn foundational mathematical tools (from linear algebra, predictive control, reinforcement learning based control, fuzzy logic
optimization, and statistics) and use them to formulate, analyze, and control, and human-in-the-loop control.
solve different problems in robotic mapping and localization.
ROBO566. MODERN CONTROL DESIGN. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
- Develop a deep understanding of front-end SLAM techniques,
Control system design with an emphasis on observer-based methods,
including feature extraction, pinhole camera modeling, and multi-view
from initial open-loop experiments to final implementation. The course
geometry, to generate initial 3D maps and pose estimates.
begins with an overview of feedback control design technique from the
- Develop a deep understanding of back-end SLAM techniques, frequency domain perspective, including sensitivity and fundamental
including graph optimization, outlier rejection, and loop closure, to limitations. State space realization theory is introduced, and system
refine local maps into consistent global representations. identification methods for parameter estimation are introduced. Computer
- Integrate state-of-the-art SLAM algorithms in Python or C++, learn based methods for control system design are presented. Prerequisites:
how to use them in the Robot Operating System (ROS) framework, EENG307.
and experiment with running them on real-world sensor data to build Course Learning Outcomes
3D environment maps.

6 Robotics
- Model and analyze single-input single-output (SISO) systems using - 5 - Understand the tradeoffs underlying the design of autonomous
both transfer function and state space realizations in continuous- and moral agents.
discrete-time. - 6 - Conduct robot ethics research grounded in both human-subject
- Design and test controllers for these systems. experimentation and algorithm development.
- Explain the similarities and differences between continuous time and
discrete time signals and systems (relating to modeling, analysis, and ROBO576. HUMAN-ROBOT INTERACTION. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
design). Human-Robot Interaction is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection
of Computer Science, Robotics, Psychology, and Human Factors, that
- Model, analyse, and design feedback control systems using MATLAB
seeks to answer a broad set of questions about robots designed to
and Simulink in both the time and fre-quency domains.
interact with humans (e.g., assistive robots, educational robots, and
- Evaluate a control system design in terms of performance,
service robots), such as: (1) How does human interaction with robots
robustness to model uncertainty, and sensitivity to noise.
differ from interaction with other people? (2) How does the appearance
and behavior of a robot change how humans perceive, trust, and interact
ROBO567. THEORY AND DESIGN OF ADVANCED CONTROL
with that robot? And (3) How can we design and program robots that
SYSTEMS. 3.0 Semester Hrs.
are natural, trustworthy, and effective? Accordingly, In this course,
This course will introduce and study the theory and design of
students will learn (1) how to design interactive robots, (2) the algorithmic
multivariable and nonlinear control systems. Students will learn to design
foundations of interactive robots; and (3) how to evaluate interactive
multivariable controllers that are both optimal and robust, using tools such
robots. To achieve these learning objectives, students will read and
as state space and transfer matrix models, nonlinear analysis, optimal
present key papers from the HRI literature, complete an individual final
estimator and controller design, and multi-loop controller synthesis.
project tailored to their unique interests and skillsets, and complete a
Offered Spring semester of even years. Prerequisite: EENG417.
group project in which they will design, pilot, and evaluate novel HRI
Course Learning Outcomes
experiments, with in-class time expected to be split between lecture by
- 1. define control-oriented problem statements for real-world the instructor, presentations by students, and either collaborative active
problems, learning activities or discussions with researchers in the field Prerequisite:
Data Structures, Probability and Statistics or equivalent.
- 2. model, analyze, and design controllers and estimators for single-
Course Learning Outcomes
input, single-output (SISO) and multi-input, multi-output (MIMO)
systems in time and frequency domains, - Understand the theoretical foundations and critical application
- 3. design optimal and robust controllers and estimators for these domains of human-robot interaction.
systems, - Employ design techniques to design interactive robots.
- 4. model, analyze, and design controllers for nonlinear systems, - Design human-subject experiments to evaluate interactive robots.
- 5. explain the connection between state-space and transfer function - Perform qualitative and quantitative analysis on the results of human-
representations of systems and the effects on controller design and robot interaction experiments.
analysis
- 6. model, analyze, and design feedback control systems using ROBO598. SPECIAL TOPICS. 0-3 Semester Hr.
MATLAB and Simulink in both the time and frequency domains, and
ROBO599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 0.5-6 Semester Hr.
- 7. understand and apply basic educational and learning theories and Individual research or special problem projects supervised by a faculty
tools that will enhance your lifelong learning. member, also, when a student and instructor agree on a subject
matter, content, and credit hours. Variable credit: 0.5 to 6 credit hours.
ROBO572. ROBOT ETHICS. 3.0 Semester Hrs. Repeatable for credit under different topics/experience and maximums
(II) This course explores ethical issues arising in robotics and vary by department. Contact the Department for credit limits toward the
human-robot interaction through philosophical analysis, scientific degree.
experimentation, and algorithm design. Topics include case studies in
ROBO599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 1-6 Semester Hr.
lethal autonomous weapon systems, autonomous cars, and social robots,
as well as higher-level concerns including economics, law, policy, and ROBO599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 1-6 Semester Hr.
discrimination. Graduate enrollees will additionally participate in and
ROBO599. INDEPENDENT STUDY. 1-6 Semester Hr.
report on the results of empirical and computational robot ethics research,
with the goal of developing publishable works. ROBO707. GRADUATE THESIS / DISSERTATION RESEARCH
Course Learning Outcomes CREDIT. 1-15 Semester Hr.
Research credit hours required for completion of a Masters-level thesis
- 1 - Understand the basic ethical theories, concepts, tools, and or Doctoral dissertation. Research must be carried out under the direct
frameworks for analyzing the social and ethical ramifications of supervision of the student's faculty advisor. Variable class and semester
robotics hours. Repeatable for credit.
- 2 - Be able to critically examine the ethical significance of the
use of robotics in daily and technical fields including human-robot
interaction, medicine, relationship, military, etc.
- 3 - Develop a critical attitude toward the role of robotics in shaping
human society including human perceptions and behaviors
- 4 - Be able to use the theories, concepts, tools, and frameworks
learned from this class to critically examine emerging robot ethics
issues in the society.