SOURCE: documents/tuitionfeesfinancialassistance.pdf
============================================================

Tuition, Fees, Financial Refunds
The amount of tuition and fee assessments is based primarily on each
Assistance
student's enrolled courses. In the event a student withdraws from a
course or courses, assessments will be adjusted as follows:
Tuition and fees are established by the Board of Trustees of Colorado - If withdrawal from a course or courses is made prior to the end of
School of Mines following the annual budget process and action by the the add/drop period for the term of enrollment, as determined by the
Colorado General Assembly and governor. registrar, tuition and fees will be adjusted to the new course level
without penalty.
Tuition
- If withdrawal from a course or courses is made after the add/drop
period, regardless of whether the student officially withdraws from
The official tuition and approved charges for the academic year will be
Mines, no adjustments in charges will be made.
available prior to the start of the academic year and can be found online
on the bursar's webpage.
Please note: students receiving federal financial aid under the Title IV
Fees programs may have a different refund as required by federal law or
regulations.
The official fees, approved charges, and fee descriptions for the
academic year will be available prior to the start of the academic year and Room and board refunds are pro-rated to the date of checkout from the
can be found online on the bursar's webpage. residence hall. Arrangements must be made with the Housing Office.
Payments and Refunds Student health insurance charges are not refundable. The insurance
remains in effect for the entire semester.
Financial Responsibility
Financial Assistance for Graduate Studies
It is the student’s responsibility to abide by Mines payment and refund
Graduate study is a considerable investment of time, energy, and
policies when registering for classes.
money by serious students who expect a substantial return not only
- Full payment of tuition and fees are due by 4 p.m. MST on the first in satisfaction but also in future earnings. Applicants are expected to
business day following Census Day for each term. Please see the weigh carefully the investment they are willing to make against expected
bursar's webpage for specific semester information. benefits before applying for admission.
- Students are responsible for viewing their account balance online
Students are also expected to make full use of any resources available,
through Trailhead. Mines generates electronic invoices only; no paper
including personal and loan funds, to cover expenses, and the school can
invoices will be mailed.
offer some students financial aid through graduate research and teaching
- Students are responsible for dropping their courses by the published
assistantships and through industry, state, and federal fellowships.
drop deadline if they don’t plan to attend. Failure to do so will result in
charges incurred on the student account. Purpose of Financial Aid
If you don’t fulfill your financial obligations: The Graduate School’s limited financial aid is used
- At 4 p.m. MST on the due date, any unpaid balance will be assessed 1. To give equal access to graduate study by assisting students with
a 1.5% late fee. limited personal resources.
- An additional 1.5% late fee will be assessed to any unpaid balance 2. To compensate graduate students who teach and do research.
each month thereafter. 3. To give an incentive to exceptional students who can provide
- Accounts not paid in full by the last day to drop classes are academic leadership for continually improving graduate programs.
considered past due. Holds will be placed on past due accounts
preventing registration, transcripts, diplomas, and access to other Employment Restrictions and Agreements
student records.
Students who are employed full time or who are enrolled part-time are not
- Accounts not paid in full at the end of each semester are considered eligible for financial aid through the Graduate School.
delinquent. Delinquent accounts will be turned over to a collections
agency in accordance with Colorado law, and all collection fees and Students who are awarded assistantships must sign an appointment
costs will be added to the account balance. The collection agency agreement, which gives the terms of appointment and specifies the
may report delinquent accounts to the national credit bureau. amount and type of work required. Graduate assistants who hold
- Students whose accounts have been sent to a collection agency must regular appointments are expected to devote all their efforts to their
pay their balance in full and prepay for any subsequent semester educational program and may not be otherwise employed without the
before registration will be allowed. written permission of their supervisor and the graduate dean. Students
with assistantships during the academic year must be registered as full
- Any students whose debt to Mines was written off due to a
time. During the summer session, they must be registered for a minimum
bankruptcy discharge will be required to prepay for future semesters
of 3 credit hours, unless they qualify for a summer research registration
before registration will be allowed.
exception. Please see https://www.mines.edu/graduate_admissions/ for
details on summer registration exception eligibility.

2 Tuition, Fees, Financial Assistance
Aid Application Forms
New students interested in applying for financial aid are encouraged
to apply early. Financial aid forms are included in Graduate School
application packets and may be filled out and returned with the other
application papers.
Graduate Fellowships
The departments and programs may award fellowships based on the
student’s academic performance.
Graduate Student Loans
Federal student loans are available for graduate students who need
additional funding beyond their own resources and any assistantships or
fellowships they may receive. The Free Application for Federal Student
Aid (FAFSA) must be completed to apply for these loan funds. Students
must be degree-seeking graduate students, taking courses toward
their degree, and attending at least part-time (4.5 hours) per semester
(including summer) to be eligible. Degree-seeking students who are
approved for reduced registration (4 hours/semester fall and spring and 3
hours summer) are also eligible. Students seeking a certificate or taking
undergraduate courses to prepare them for graduate courses are not
eligible.
Financial aid is only able to pay towards courses that will count towards
a student current degree program. Students must be enrolled in at least
half-time in those courses to be eligible for aid.
Specific information and procedures for filing the FAFSA can be found
on the Financial Aid Office web site at https://finaid.mines.edu/. The
Financial Aid Office telephone number is 303-273-3301, and the email
address is finaid@mines.edu.
Satisfactory Academic Progress for Federal
Student Loans and Colorado Grad Grant
Students receiving assistance from federal or Colorado funds must
make satisfactory academic progress toward their degree. Satisfactory
progress is defined by maintaining adequate pace toward graduation and
maintaining a 3.0 cumulative GPA at all times. The pace is measured
by dividing the overall credit hours attempted by the overall credit hours
completed. Students will be required to maintain a 75% completion rate
at all times. Satisfactory standing is determined after each semester,
including summer. If students are deficient in either the pace or grade-
point average measure, they will receive a one-semester warning period
during which they must return to satisfactory standing.
If this is not done, their eligibility will be terminated until such time as they
return to satisfactory standing. Financial aid eligibility termination may
be appealed to the Financial Aid Office on the basis of extenuating or
special circumstances having negatively affected the student's academic
performance. If approved, the student will receive a probationary period
of one semester to regain satisfactory standing.
The deadline to apply to graduate and participate in commencement
is the first day of the term in which the student intends to graduate/
participate.
Any request to be added to the graduation list and/or commencement
ceremony after this date may be made in writing and will be considered
by the Office of Graduate Studies. If the request is denied, the student
will be required to apply for the next available graduation/ceremony.